A thorp might have one or several family heads, although such de facto community leaders are unlikely to have any formal titles and typically hold an ill-defined equality of status. It is only 40% likely that any particular permanent thorp will have a name. Structures are usually confined to huts, shanties, tents, and lean-tos. Hamletsare larger than thorps but still smaller than true villages, typically withas many as 400 residents. It is 30% likely that such a community is only temporary in nature, being occupied either seasonally or until a specific task is finished (e. g. , the completion of a canal). If permanent, a hamlet will generally have no firm economic base or organized governance, and its inhabitants will typically earn livings as subsistence farmers, hunter-gatherers, or through various cottage industries. If non- permanent in nature, the residents will likely be laborers involved in a public works project, such as building a castle, temple, or road; people engaged in exploiting some rich resource, such as seasonal harvesting of wild plants, hunting of saleable fur or meat animals, prospecting for precious metals or gems, or scavenging from ruins; or even bandits or equivalent lawless groups, including irregular military forces like rebels or unemployed mercenaries. The leading individuals in a hamlet may hold some sort of outside authority — such as bosses of a work group, priests, or rebel officers — although typically no particular post of leadership exists for the hamlet itself, which is more often recognized as a locality than a community. The most substantial structures in such a community are likely to be longhouses or huts, perhaps clustered around the ruin of an older building. Villagesare communities of up to 900 inhabitants that have some sort ofgovernment and a specific economic base — which, in most cases, is agriculture, making the majority of people in such places farmers. A typical village might have up to a half-dozen industries, the first two of which will almost always be a blacksmith’s workshop and a mill, the two sorts of industry needed to support day-to-day life in an agricultural community (i. e. , a blacksmith to create and repair farm implements and a miller to grind grain for use in bread). The third sort of industry most likely to be present in a village will generally be a small brewery. Villages do not generally have the resources to construct defenseworks, other than perhaps palisades if some suitable construction material (such as sturdy thorn bushes) and constant threat exists. Many do, however, have some place of refuge — such as a watchtower — to which people can retreat if their community is attacked by raiders. Historically, fortified churches served this purpose from the Dark Ages through the Renaissance, as these structures were generally built with the greatest sense ofpermanency in mind and, as a result, tended to be the sturdiest in any particular area. If a village is located in an area where physical threats like monsters or humanoid marauders are present, the able-bodied members of the community will also generally be organized into some sort of militia unit. Communesare religious communities, and might be similar in appearance and many functions to villages, often with the addition of one or more ecclesiastic structures. Most of the members of such a community will be of the same ethos and adhere to the same set of religious beliefs. Reasons for the commune being established as a separate community could include worship of a deity with an agricultural or wilderness orientation; location at some holy site associated with the deity; or, if the members are part of a sect or cult, religious beliefs that differ enough from the norm in the nation in question that its worshippers prefer some measure of isolation. A typical example of such a community would consist of the rural temple of a high priest, housing for his clergy and other followers, and a cluster of huts, barns, granaries, and storage buildings occupied and run by his peasants (or, alternately homes for craftsmen and a collection of workshops if the commune has a manufacturing rather than an agricultural basis). It is 50% likely, however, that any particular commune consists of laity led by a non-ordained prophet and that its members are part of a religious movement deemed eccentric, heretical, or forbidden by the society at large. Communes can range in size considerably. The smallest would probably consist of a leader and his extended family or immediate followers, numbering up to about 20 folk, while the largest might have 500 or more members. Other sorts of small communitiesmight also exist in the game world. Non- permanent communities consisting of tents, wagons, or boats might be used by nomadic bands of various sorts and resemble thorps or hamlets in their numbers of inhabitants and organization. Boom towns might spring up in formerly isolated or unsettled areas where a particularly rich resource has been discovered or tract of desirable land has been opened for acquisition. A rush of fortune-seekers may flood in, erecting temporary structures on land that they may or may not own legally. Such places might have organization and facilities comparable to a thorp, hamlet, or even a village, but have a population in the thousands. Such unstable conditions very often breed disease, hardship, exploitation, crime, and violence. _20 to 80 inhabitants. Any particular thorp is 50% likely to be non-permanent in nature and dedicated to seasonal activities — like hunting, quarrying, logging, or herb gathering — or to public works projects. If any given thorp is a permanent settlement, it is 30% likely that all the inhabitants will be part of the same family or clan. If not engaged in some such specific activity, inhabitants of thorps are more likely than those of larger communities to earn their livings as hunter-gatherers, beggars, bandits, scavengers, or the like, or even to be raiders, scouts, migrants, or refugees from a neighboring nation. 