FUN & HUMOR

IN A GYGAXIAN

FANTASY WORLD

Weyland Smith & Company

GIANT FUN CATALOG

of

Unsuspected Mirthful Magic Apparatus,

Entertaining Enchanted Items, and

Hilariously Trollish Objects you MUST possess

Fall, 2007

For Jokers, Rogues, Mountebanks, and All Who Enjoy a Good Laugh!!!

© 2007 Trigee Enterprises Company.All rights reserved.

A much Abridged Edition of this work was published by Hekaforge Productions under © 1999 Gary Gygax.

Weird 

PREFACE

The reader is admonished not to use this work to devise horrid tricks to play upon the players in a roleplaying game campaign.  the many joke items listed herein might tempt the unscrupulous Game Master to do that.  it will be tempting to supply the players character with the least gold with a single order form and watch the fun. Naturally, all of the various prank things, and the really useful objects too, are adaptable to virtually any rules system, but do not! This catalog is for the amusement of the reader and not meant to cause a host of difficulties and dilemmas for the players in an RPG campaign.  keep this firmly in mind as you pursue the hundreds of magical items listed herein.

Remember, the roleplaying game is a serious thing; players are representing heroic game personas who need to be encouraged with useful, even splendid rewards, not plagued with the sort of stuff that is advertised herein. We publish this work with trepidation, fearing that the unthinking GM might misunderstand its purpose, use the material herein presented for levity at the expense of the ever-eager gamer seeking to make his character the most potent ever known. Worse, should the pick of the joke items be supplied to non-player characters by the Game Master, who can say what harm could occur to player-characters ambitions, the psyches of otherwise arrogant players whose avatars in the campaign suffer reversals of fortune because of thoughtless use of enchanted items from this work in the campaign?

Take this cautionary preamble to heart. Most of the things found herein are joke items only at the expense of another unfortunate person whose happy state might be adversely affected by cruel application of such harsh and callous stuff.

FORWARD BY THE DISCOVERER

This priceless text was uncovered in a recent dig in the ruins of a novelty shop thought to have connections to many dimensional nodes.Also found there was a sign stating, This Way to Odd Alley. It is now being studied by the Royal Museum.Fortunately, they have no clue as to what that implies.The archeological work took place in London, was enabled for all too short a time by the government there.After what was termed a time sufficient for a thorough examination and recovery of pertinent artifacts, the construction project that had been held in abeyance by for the dig was allowed to continue.No further discoveries from this site can be expected.It is destroyed.Providentially for us all, one of our number was on hand, smuggled the incriminating text away to safety.Should it have been discovered by the authorities, it might have triggered investigations, at worst it would have been burned as mere rubbish.

As all who are Adepts know, the Weyland Smith and his company wereare masters at the forging and compounding of things magical.With the catalog in hand this is proven, as well as the vaunted Smiths hearty sense of a good joke in Teutonic manner! 

These catalogs wereare exceptionally rare.They survive, of course, because of the incredible enchantments placed upon them.It seems that the Smith was also having a joke upon all even as he issued his catalogs, though.Note that only seven order forms were ever included in any copy, and when the last one is used, the items advertised in that catalog can never be obtained from that document.Only a catalog and its accompanying order blank can transcend the many dimensional frequencies so as to reach the company, have the desired goods be sent back in return for the precious metal tendered.In short, it is as much a prize as anything to be ordered from its pages! A listing of the marvelous magical things sans order blank is tantalization of cruel sort.

Some little-traveled persons have somehow mistaken this catalog for one produced by a joke and novelty company in America, that having a Smith in its name. More astonishing still, a few such unenlightened individuals have thought that this catalog of toys and trinkets inspired this one. That Weyland Smith existed long before America was discovered, was producing and purveying his magical creations should suffice to answer such suggestions, perhaps with a shake of the head at monumental ignorance…

Game Masters, keep this close, use it wisely.Should some surprisingly fortunate Avatar gain one, they must be cautioned to select with care, and know that the materials so eagerly desired are not always to be had.The Smith will make substitutions for out of stock items, or refund money, never hold an order until an item not then available is back in stock.

Enjoy your perusal of the wit and wizardry of Weyland Smith & Company.Place orders for those you direct with consciousness that such things are scarce.Sale items are often of very limited quantity.If other participants manage to gain a copy of the work, it is to be hoped that it will have one, at most two, order forms.

Eggary the Avoided

Genevus Lago

2004 HE

Weyland Smith & Company

GIANT FUN CATALOG

of

- Unsuspected Mirthful Magic Apparatus,
- Entertaining Enchanted Items, and
- Hilarious Heka Objects you MUST possess
- The Perfect Source for all Wags, Jokers, Rogues, Mountebanks, and Others Who Enjoy a Good Laugh!!!

Ordering instructions are found at the end of the catalog.

This great number makes em forget in an instant!

ABSENT-MINDED WIZARD TRICK RING

At last you can be on an even footing with any of those domineering Power activators who blight your life.Just get the one you want to get even with to slip the ABSENT-MINDED WIZARD TRICK RING onto a finger.Voila!The mark is as empty-headed as a goose when it comes to Extraordinary Abilities, ripe for the plucking.Caution: the heka in this device is such that forgetfulness cant be guaranteed for more than a few seconds.Act fast, get yours now!

Absent-minded Wizard Trick Ring: 		25,975 crowns

Theyll fall for this one for sure!

AMAZING WINDOW TRICK

Pass this on to any sucker, assure it works, because it does!The roll-out and stick-to-the-wall parchment of three by five feet size you hand out is indeed an AMAZING WINDOW TRICK.When it is in place, the window works, making aopening in any wooden or stone wall up to three feet thick.The rube will be able to see through the panes of glass into the space beyond, but heres the really funny part: Anyone or anything on the other side can do the same!Right, the user is on view, and glass and thin wood isnt much of a barrier to an angry monster.Too bad you wont be around to see the fun then, eh?Magical effect lasts for one full minute-plenty of time to get the action going…while youre getting away.

Amazing Window Trick (one-time use only): 	2,950 crowns

They make themselves at home, so watch out!

ANIMATED FURNISHINGS

Weyland Smith has outdone itself by offering these jocund but bellicose items of furniture. Each item will ignore you, but move so as to cause others pratfalls, trip by-passers, hold fast or entwine the unsuspecting visitor, even attack viciously anyone who dares to fight back against such waggish pranks. Each item of ANIMATED FURNISHINGS is magically endowed with Health equal to a strong human, empowered thereby to deliver one, two, three or even four attacks each exchange, the harm inflicted being equal to that delivered by a heavy, blunt instrument. Invite a sucker in and watch the fun!

Animated Furnishings:	

Armchair, four attacks	2,149 crowns

Three-branched Candelabra, three fiery attacks	1,249 crowns

Chair, two attacks	589 crowns

Couch, two attacks	3,249 crowns

Footstool, one attack	599 crowns

Rug, 9 x 12 one attack	2,989 crowns

Tapestry, one attack	999 crowns

Table, two attacks	2,689 crowns

Im really stuck on you!

ARTFUL ADHESIVE

With this glue you can bond just about anything to anything.The cement is clear, thin, blends so perfectly with whatever it is put on that its nearly impossible to spot.What a laugh when the cat sticks to birdcage, or your friend cant let go of your liquor jug!Our ARTFUL ADHESIVE comes in a pot with its own brush, enough cement to cover nine square feet.The adhesive remains active for from one to three hours depending on heat and humidity.Once dried, all cementing ceases, and formerly glued-together things are freed.That conjures up a whole different line of gags, right?Also great for use in combination with our special Slippery Slime (see below).

Artful Adhesive: 	6,299 crowns

When things are a little dull, then try…

ASTONISHING SEE MONKEYS

Empty a box of these into any large amount of watera fountain, pool, even a large rain barrel and get away fast.What a great time those around will have as from 21 to 40 big mandreagles (or the local brand of flying apes or monkeys) come popping out of the stuff, wet, angry, and looking for trouble.See?The ASTONISHING SEE MONKEYS arent really monkeys, but they see well enough to savage whoever is handy.More fun than a barrel of you know what!

Astonishing See Monkeys: 		40,487 crowns

Surprise em with arching potatoes!

ATTACKING SPUD TRICK

The potato bin can be a dangerous place for anyone who isnt in on your latest addition to it.With one of your spuds enchanted with our ATTACKING SPUD TRICK, the sucker coming within three feet of it will be subject to a magically generated arrow, coming at him with 90% accuracy as if shot from strong bow at that range!Get a dozen and wipe out a housefull of foes.Caution, once activated, even you cant approach your armed  without it letting loose.

Attacking Spud Trick: 		5,000 crowns

This guy is no worry…

BALL & CHAIN JOKE

Thats what the rubes will think when they see you decked out with a leg iron that has a big chain and a huge iron ball attached to it.To reel them in well, even groan, strain, and drag the BALL & CHAIN JOKE along slowly as you plead for rescue.The joke is on them, though, when you suddenly reach down, have in hand an Extraordinary flail that gives a 20 bonus to hitting, and doubles base harm!Dont have too much fun smacking skulls with it, though, because in 12 seconds time after striking a victim, the ball explodes for harm like that you were doing, and in a radius of 12 feet too.

Ball & Chain Jokewhile they last! 		35,800 crowns

How to defend yourself with fruit…

BANEFUL BANANA PEEL

When you are being pursued, or attacked, this special little novelty could make all the difference you need to come out smelling like a rise.Just point the peel at its target (up to 30 feet distant) and give it a toss in that direction.Out BANEFUL BANANA PEEL, is self-motivated, moves as quickly as a cat to get underfoot, so the subject you indicated is 90% likely to slip on it and fall!The peel keeps on working for a full minute too. Buy a whole bunch for a barrel of laughs at the next royal ball!

Baneful Banana Peel: Each		199 crowns

Off with that rude knaves head!

BELCHING POWDER

Dump a ration of this dust into your victims drink, or sprinkle it on chow.Wait a couple of minutes, and then be ready for belly laughs galore.This specially enchanted BELCHING POWDER causes the longest, loudest burps you have ever heard.Just the thing to really annoy the aristocracy at one of their banquets.Belching lasts for at least two full minutes, maybe as many as five!Comes in a box sufficient for six applications.

Belching Powder:	1,899 crowns

Take a look at this!

BLACK EYE GAG

You hand the rube a tube, tell to have a look, and lo and behold!There is a hot babe before eye.Then tell the sucker that if  to the other eye, another nudie will appearand it does!Meantime, though, the eyepiece of the BLACK EYE GAG viewer has left its mark, a black ring around the rubes eye that wont wash off for a week!All will know what been doing.Guffaws aplenty.

Black Eye Gag: 		101 crowns

The place is darklets enter!

BLACK FLAME BALL

Whether its would-be burglars or those not able to see in the dark, youll have an upper hand all round.Even those pointy-eared Alfar and their kin cant see the light shed by our BLACK FLAME BALL, only you can, thanks to the special charm that comes with it.The whole area within two or more rod distance of the ball is as bright as day to you, but others dont notice a thing from it.Lasts for up to one year of use.

Black Flame Ball: Specify diameter:

6, with two-rod radius of light	1,735crowns

9, with three-rod radius of light	2,988crowns

12, with four-rod radius of light	3,997crowns

15, with five-rod radius of light	5,516crowns

This is NOT a deadly weapon.

BLAM-O SLINGSHOT

No worries about anyone taking this from you, as its merely a boys slingshot…NOT!Although it looks just like a normal toy weapon suitable for potting off birds and small varmints, the BLAM-O SLINGSHOT is really a superior launcher for all sorts of other, really fun and dangerous things, including packets of itching and sneezing powder. Just about anything up to the size of a pullets egg and one-ounce weight can be sent with +10% accuracy to a distance of 100 feet using this handy little tool!

Blam-O Slingshot:	2,595 crowns

Cant see a thing out of that one, Cully…

BLIND EYE JOKE

When placed over either eye, ruse is sure to fool the unsuspecting.With the BLIND EYE JOKE covering one, your ocular seems poxes and totally useless.Thanks to the enchantment only you know about, though, sight in as if looking through a close-up lens, double human normal!Perfect for ogling the girls, spying, or just looking pathetic for the generous suckers.(Caution, wearing two of these numbers is likely to cause permanent loss of sightso giving a pair might be a good idea for that special someone!)

Blind Eye Joke: 		2,500 crowns

This is the best booze Ive ever tasted!

BLUE LIPS BOTTLE

This one-quart flask can hold any ale, beer, or liquor you care to put in.The special enchantments of the BLUE LIPS BOTTLE have no effect on you, but any rube taking a swig will soon rue the error of trusting you!In seconds the suckers lips turn a bright blue, and mouth and tongue are likewise an azure hue soon after that.While t notice a thing wrong, you and your chums can have a great laugh at expense.Really fun at feasts and noble wassails too.

Blue Lips bottle: 		189 crowns

That should have severed her neck!

BLUNT-EDGED AXE

Every headsmans nightmare, and the dream of all real jokers, this specially dweomered cleaving weapon is a laugh riot!Just exchange it for any axe, large or small, and the magic inside our BLUNT-EDGED AXE takes over.Not only does it duplicate the weapon it is replacing, but it performs perfectly until the one swinging it wants good results.Then its blade gets rubbery, the edge goes blunt, and it is virtually harmless.Think of the howls of mirth from all in the know if it is being used to defend against some really fell opponent.Worth every ounce of gold it costs!

Blunting-Edge Axe: 		8,950 crowns

How much cash do you wish, sir?

BOGUS LETTER OF CREDIT

Such a hearty laugh you can have with this caper!The certificate is so real that even the most cautious of bankers and critical money-lenders are likely to fall for it.Done on specially dweomered parchment to mimic the real thing, our BOGUS LETTER OF CREDIT makes you feel like a prince as you present it.The sum is a variable we decide, from as low as 15,000 to as high as 65,000.Also the name of the financial institution on which it is drawn can be any one of a score.No pattern here for the marks to cop wise to, see?!(We recommend cashing only a portion of it in, having the balance returned in a real letter of credit, then clearing the area fast.)

Bogus Letter of Credit: 		8,750 crowns

Shes a witch!BURN HER!!!

BOGUS WITCHMARKS

Theres no end to the fun and confusion you can have with a pack of these, kids!Our very special heka duplicates the nether force used by real practitioners of the black arts.They wont wash off for a month too!!!When you slip BOGUS WITCHMARKS onto an unsuspecting victim, Inquisitor and Witch Finder alike will be stumped, cant tell the difference.You alone know, can sit back and watch the whole show as your enemies and really mean teachers alike get the works

Bogus Witchmarks (applicator with 12 transfers): 		950 crowns

What a surprise for the unsuspecting archer!

BOOMERANG ARROW (Also in quarrel form)

Heres one sure to raise guffaws from the would-be target and most onlookers alike.The BOOMERANG ARROW goes only a few yards, then zips back and strikes the bowman!It happens so fast you hardly get a chance to enjoy the look on your victims face.Comes in self-blunting tip form for suckers you dont really want to harm.

Boomerang Arrow:

Standard Arrow, long:	260 crowns

Self-blunting Arrow, long:	185 crowns

Standard Arrow, short:	250 crowns

Self-blunting Arrow, short:	175 crowns

Standard Quarrel:	245 crowns

Self-blunting Quarrel:	170 crowns

Lets climb and escape!

BREAKING LADDER RUNG

Having one or more of these little pranks handy is a sure-fire mirth inducer.Whenever more than 50 pounds weight is placed upon one, our BREAKING LADDER RUNG does just that. With a pair, one set for delayed effect, it is almost certain that the chump will be precipitated for the amusement of all.

Breaking Ladder Rung: 	

Metal, delayed (two-second) break	1,835 crowns

Metal, immediate break	965 crowns

Wood, delayed (two-second) break	1,430 crowns

Wood, immediate break	790 crowns

Ill carry the swag…Oops!

BREAKING LOOT SACK

Slip one of these to a confederate, let oad it up, and then stand back.Three steps and r…r…r..rip!The seemingly sturdy bottom of the BREAKING LOOT SACK splits open and the goods hit the floor.In the confusion you can make your escape-or stick around and swipe a few choice items for yourself.The mark is to blame for their loss, and whos the wiser?Perfect for pranks or personal gain.

Breaking Loot Sack: 	300 crowns

Put this anywhere for a whole lot of laughs!

BUCKET O HUNGRY GRUBS PRANK

Weve gone all out with this one so as to assure you some real fun!The wooden bucket is enchanted to keep these vicious, flesh-devouring in stasis until some dope opens its lid…or you set it up so as to dump over and spill its contents, of course!The enchantment makes these little carnivores look like gems, but they arent quite that.A BUCKET O HUNGRY GRUBS PRANK contains 1000 of the wiggling horrors, and each one wiggles and squirms its way to dinner, the tender flesh of the sucker, in fast and furious manner.Each delivers a painful bite as it slices through skin to get at the meal under it, then goes to work to eat ten-times its weight in meat over the next days time.One bucket thus contains enough grubs to strip the flesh from a creature of up to around 400 pounds total weight, and in most gruesome manner too!This little number is great in combination with the Door Pull to Manacle Joke, below, but youll need to set it up so as to empty its contents on the trapped mark.

Bucket O Hungry Grubs Prank: 	8,805 crowns

Be the first ruffian in your gang to own this baby!

BUG LAUNCHER

This is a hand catapult with a difference.The handle is enchanted to hold up to a ozen deadly spiders, centipedes, and even scorpions.These bite successfully one-third of the time, deliver enough venom to fell a normal man too.Just aim and trigger your BUG LAUNCHER and three of the ammunition critters shoot out for up to 20 feet distance.Note that this device  be reloaded.Not recommended for casual brawls.

Bug Launcher (four shots): only…	9,966 crowns

Heres some bait, so lets go fishing!

CAN O WYRMS

This is a trick thats guaranteed a belly laugh for all save the anglers.These heka-charged hellgrammites arent really wyrms, of course.But they are great at catching fish as will be evident quickly. Bait a hook from the CAN O WYRMS, and within five minutes of it being in the water, the largest marine creature within one mile will strike it! Whatever eats it senses automatically the rest of the snacks, comes after them with a vengeance. A real howler when a really big specimen is attracted.

Can O Wyrms (holds 12 bait)	120 crowns

Really funny jokes make em weak with laughter!

CAPTAIN MORDIES WHIZ BANG

Once a mark opens this little folio doomed to guffaws and rollicking mirth.Thats right, our special joke book is so funny that the reader cant stop reading and laughing.Theres enough smutty humor in CAPTAIN MORDIES WHIZ BANG to make even dull-witted humanoids howl with glee as they look at the cartoons!This terrific tome will keep em busy for an hour, and when reading it the dope is weak from laughter, uncoordinated too…

Captain Mordies Whiz Bang:	12,778 crowns









All you need for fun and profit.

CHARMED CARD DECK

No matter how anyone shuffles these pasteboards, you always know what card is on top, or where a certain card is in the pack.Thats because to you, the CHARMED CARD DECK is as clear as glass.Others see the printed backs, but with your special lenses you can read the fronts, see a glow from a card pulled from the deck, then replaced in the pack.Wonderful for parlor entertainment, mountebanks, and card sharpers alike. 

Charmed Card Deck:	7,200 crowns

Oh boy! Something fun to grow in my room.

CHILL-A PET

Imagine the fun in store when you order one of these gag plants for a not-so-close pal.The dupe will see nothing but a ceramic form of some sort of cute little creature that  instructed to cover with the special paste and then water every day for a week.Of course  know that at the end of seven days the CHILL-A PET grows overnight into a horrific monster.If faithfully watered, it will become a ravening vegetable heap that can fell a hero in a single blow its arm or else smotherdrown a victim luckless enough to be caught.Neglected, it becomes a killer cactus that will send forth arrow-like needles, embrace as lovingly as does an iron maiden.The pet attacks anyone near it immediately, can as much punishment as a grizzly bear too, and best of all it expires in one day, vanishes into dust, so theres no incriminating evidence.

Chill-a Pet: Specify pottery form, the larger being hardier when grown

Bunny 	3,250crowns

Koala	3,500crowns

Lamb	3,750crowns

Squirrel	3,000crowns

This will make em laugh.

CLOWN NOSE

What a nifty little number thisone no practical jester can be without. When you put it on, it gives you a full 20% boost to your humor rating, and ordinary pratfalls are going to wow em! Its a double-edged prank too, of course, because our CLOWN NOSE wont come off the schnozola of anyone but you. So if anyone else tries to use it, with or without encouragement, it becomes a real proboscis, and theyre stuck with a laughable big, red, round nose until some kind-hearted wizard removes the hex.

Clown Nose:	4,499 crowns

Look at the ashlar blocks in this wallsturdy as solid rock…

COLLAPSING CURTAIN WALL

Fool your enemies, have fun with friends with this great trick. Any section of normal protective stone wall can be  by applying Weyland SmithsCOLLAPSING CURTAIN WALL WASH. Just brush it over the outer face of the selected curtain wall, and when the wash dries the wall will collapse when pushed, pulled, or struck with a heavy object. Look out below!!! One gallon of wash covers up to 400 square feet of wall surface. Note, effects of this wash last for no more than one weeks time.

Collapsing Curtain Wall Wash, one gallon bucket 	7,448 crowns

Lets see where that staircase leads…

COLLAPSING STAIRS

What a riot when one or more rubes think to step up or down on this special construction!The whole flight turns into a flat, greased plane when the second, third or fourth step from the top has weight placed on it.The COLLAPSING STAIRS become a chute down with a rough landing or a special trapdoor leading to whatever you decidea pit, another chute, you name it, be ready for the laughs.

Collapsing Stairs: 	69,998 crowns

With Special Trapdoor at Bottom:	87,188 crowns

Once they sit down, they wont get up!

COMFY CHAIR CAPER

We went to the renowneddesigner Adept Goostuff Sticky for the design of this number!It is an artfully made, inviting chair what looks as comfortable as any ever crafted.It is, but the funny part is that the COMFY CHAIR CAPER is more.This seat is enchanted to adhere in unbreakable seal to whomever sits down in it.Furthermore the seemingly normal upholstery is as tough as steel wire mesh, the wood like wrought iron, so theres no cutting oneself free.Only by speaking a magical word can one get free of this beauty.A great gag for parties too!

Comfy Chair Caper:

Standard Easy Chair Model:	88,750 crowns

Throne Chair Model:	106,500 crowns

Look, its eyes roll and its tongue wags!

COMICAL WALL MASK

This mechanical wall decoration is a laugh riot in more ways that the rubes viewing it will imagine.When you wind it up the clockwork movements are set for up to two days.Then fill the container in the forehead of your COMICAL WALL MASK with whatever special surprise you like.When anyone without the enchanted key on person comes within six feet of the mechanical mask, it will squirt the liquid forth in a cone that is up to four feet wide at its terminus, a foot wide as it leaves the back-and-forth turning head.Holds acid, dye, ink, liquid contact poison, and just about any like substance.Warranted for one year.Specify style:

Clown, cuddly baby, monkey, old man, old woman, or pig:

Comical Wall Mask:	3,178 crowns

A mess with purpose…

CRACKER CRUMBS

What looks like ordinary bits of broken crackers is something a lot better.Thats because we have treated them with special alchemical substances.Tossing them from the bag onto any hard surface activate the CRACKER CRUMBS.Thereafter any pressure of at least 20 pounds or rough contact, such as being kicked, will cause a crumb to explode with a ka-pow that can be heard for hundreds of feet. Each crumb is the size of babys thumb nail.Each bag holds sufficient crumbs to sew an area of 200 square feet.Note: Extreme dampness or wetting prevent explosion until the material dries.

Cracker Crumbs:	1,188 crowns

Oh, how scary! A fake hand…

CREEPY HAND

This mitt is the size of a gorillas, but it is clearly nor a real dismembered hand, and the gore at its writs is red paint. This novelty can be poked, prodded, even thrown and kicked without harm to the assailant or it. The CREEPY HAND is made of secret enchanted materials, and it comes to life, attacks whoever you look at, when you speak the command word. This item moves as rapidly as a rat, is nearly indestructible, and when the fingers get a grip on the marks throat, its lights out, for they deliver throttling harm that brings death by strangulation in only 30 seconds time. Only a spell that dismisses an evil influence will destroy its hold. 

Creepy Hand:	29,588 crowns

Put a cork in it now!

CREPITATION POWDER

Just like our Belching Powder, only better!Dump a ration of this dust into your victims drink, or sprinkle it on chow.Wait a couple of minutes time, and then be ready for belly laughs galore.This specially enchanted CREPITATION POWDER causes the longest, loudest, and stinkiest flatulation imaginable!!!Thats right, farts not even a Viking jarl can endure.Crepitation lasts for at least two full minutes, maybe as many as five!Comes in a box sufficient for six applications.

Crepitation Powder:	2,057 crowns

Careful!That might come to life.

DEADLY COBRA STATUE

Sure to be a hilarious time for you when some lout says that about your DEADLY COBRA STATUE.It is enchanted, all right, but the gag comes only if some clever soul smacks it a good one to make sure.Then the statue discharged a fan of blue bolts, six in all, so as to sprat a 180-degree arc.Perfect for fooling those uninvited guests who always seem to be dropping in.

Deadly Cobra Statue: 	17,950 crowns

I think my eyes are going bad…

DECEITFUL DECK OF CARDS

This is the perfect pack for anyone who wants to really make the suckers pay.How so?Because they are marked so you can read the back as easily as the rube reads the front.Better still, at your command, and one card in the deck will change its spots.Even though leopards cant, the DECEITFUL DECK OF CARDS canincluding face cards to others, so a King can become a Jack instantly if you say so.Better still, another card in the deck or your hand will become the one altered.Sure to rake in the winnings when it counts!

Deceitful Deck of Cards:	35,000 crowns

Whoa!That thing looks almost alive…

DESERT TARANTULA

Thats because this six-inch diameter spider alive.With a special heka we have placed the DESERT TARANTULA into stasis even as we reduced its size by a full 90%.Anyone coming within three feet of this baby triggers a counter energy, and….poof!A mean and hungry spider of five-foot diameter is on hand and hoppin mad too!Be somewhere safe so you can enjoy the romp as they try to avoid its attacks.

Desert Tarantula: A special bargain at…	12,265 crowns

Those look like hell on you.

DEVIL HORNS

Pick up a pair of these dweomered additions to your cranium, and youll be the life and death of the party! Just hold them to your head, say the word, and our DEVIL HORNS not only attach themselves firmly so as to allow you to use em as if you were a raging bull, but they also enable you to be devilish in every waycharacteristics, power, movement forms, attacks, and defenses just as if you were actually an ordinary denizen of hell. The magical transformation lasts for a full minute. Horns are re-usable once per week too!

Devil Horns:	79,339 crowns

What do you mean, magic hat?

DISAPPEARING HAT TRICK

With this natty chapeau you can be the life of the partyor escape from a lynching partyas needed.Set the feather in this cap to any of five different positions, let a rube clap it on head, or do the honor.Poof!The victim is gone, teleported in a cardinal direction for 100 to 100 leagues distance, out of your hair for sure.Only the hat and the mystery remain to mystify and possibly disconcert the audience.Or, use the DISAPPEARING HAT TRICK with your own special setting to take you, along with your special headgear, far from the murderous crowd…

Disappearing Hat Trick: Name your style, only	25,550 crowns

What a marvelous magical shield….not!

DISINTEGRATING SHIELD

Perfect with or without Joke Armor, the enchantment of any of these devices seems to assure the one of plenty.You know plenty of what-trouble! What seems to be proof against mighty blows, when struck a third time, crumble into splinters and sawdust.A DISINTEGRATING SHIELD is the perfect present for the warrior on your special list!

Disintegrating Shield: Comes in three sizes:	

Targe (seemingly -9/+3)		2,000 crowns

Shield (seemingly -12/+4)		3,250 crowns

Super-sized Shield (seemingly -15/+5)	4,500 crowns

No foe has a chance against this baby!

DESTRUCTO WAND

Just point and shoot.A blaze of raw purple energy shoots from this baton, and whatever target is selected, up to the size of an elephant that is within 100 feet distance will be vaporized.At least thats what the rubes will see.Only you know that the DESTRUCTO WAND is a potent illusion generator that has made the target invisible but unharmed.A laugh riot when you want to get even with an uppity party.Also a useful means for you of hiding things for up to 24 hours.Invisibility is visual only and as is common, attack by the invisible party negates the magical energy keeping it unseen.Wand usable only three times daily, energy recharges at the rate of one use per eight hours.

Destructo Wand:	28,977 crowns

Get ready, and Ill pull open the door…

DOOR PULL RING TO MANACLE JOKE

Sure you will, chump!Little does the unwanted would-be unwanted visitor know you have other ideas about that.As soon as someone grasps the ring and tugs firmly, it alters magically, becomes a steel manacle that cant be removed without a command word…or a few hours of filing!The DOOR PULL RING TO MANACLE JOKE holds the dupe there, and causes the door its fastened to harden too, even as interior bolts lock it firmly shut.This little number is great in combination with the Electrical Shock Rod (just pour some water onto the floor, let it seep out on the other side), below, and the Bucket O Hungry Grubs Antic, above!

Door Pull ring to Manacle Joke: 	9,550 crowns

What a slob!

DRIBBLE GOBLET

Any mark you choose is bound to be caught by this one.The goblet you supply for the quaffing of drink is one magicked to send forth a little stream of whatever liquid is in the drinking vessel even as the sucker gulps furiously.The stream from the DRIBBLE GOBLET hits the lower part of the body of course, making the situation even funnier.A great gag for any feast or revel!

Dribble Goblet: 	175 crowns

This must be a marvelously enchanted rug…

DUST AND FUZZBALL CARPET

Right, bozo, but not the sort you expect.For you and your invited guests its a plain old rug.For anyone else, you have set this up so that whether merely a floor covering, or a flying special, the intruder is in for a surprise.The instantly self-destructing DUST AND FUZZBALL CARPET will send up a cloud of grime that obscures vision in a 10-foot radius and slows actions by half for the 10 seconds the cloud of dust and fuzz persists.Funnier still is the flying version that seems fine until it is airborne for a minute, disintegrates into dirt and threads!

Dust & Fuzzball Carpet: Comes in two styles:	

Flying	17,700 crowns per square foot

Standard	7,000 crowns per square foot

Time to clean this place up…

DUST MOP

Of course this is not a device to get rid of dust and grime, its a tool to make any floor a dirty mess.What a joke on those determined to have things spic and span.No matter how they try, our DUST MOP will make things dustier than ever.Besides pranks, this little beauty is great for making the floor of any space seem disused for years, so you can literally cover your tracks with it.Five-foot handle with op guaranteed for one year of heavy use.

Dust Mop: 	899 crowns

Look out for that trap!

EASILY SPOTTED TRIPWIRE

Without seeming too obvious, weve fixed it so even a nearsighted ninny can detect the deadly trap certainly meant to be triggered by this nifty little trap.What the rubes wont realize is that the EASILY SPOTTED TRIPWIRE is supposed to be noted, and an attempt to deactivate it made.Then, when its moved in any way, whisst! All from one foot to a full 10 feet distance of the wire are magically transported to anyplace you have previously set up the receiver pentacleup to as far away as a bowshots distance!In a dungeon, this is better than a mile, of course! 

Easily Spotted Tripwire:	9,229 crowns

This should get em moving.

ELECTRIC SHOCK ROD

One touch of the business end of this cane-like device delivers a jolt of elemental electrical energy thatll make the victims hair stand on end!With a satisfying hum of angry hornets and a loud, Zzzz-ap! the ELECTRIC SHOCK ROD sends a miniature lightning bold forth to a distance of up to one footfurther if touched to a conductive material like the metal base plate of the Door Pull to Manacle Joke, above.The charge is sufficient to electrocute a small dog, bring a person down to about three-quarters normal bodily health.Dont worry, though, this is a safe-to-use device, as it takes a full one-minutes time to recharge before it can be used again.Caution!Do not use on a target that is standing on or in conductive material when you are also thereon.

Electric Shock Rod: 	15,189 crowns

From a cold stub to a flaring beacon in a second!

ELEMENTAL TORCH TRICK

To others it is only a burnt-out piece of a torch-wood.In your hand it can be a candle, a lamp, a flaring torch, or a blazing beacon as bright as a campfire.You speak the charm and our ELEMENTAL TORCH TRICK does the rest.Sure to amaze, and it will operate for a two days continuous use on lowest setting.

Elemental Torch Trick:	897 crowns

Theres a really tall guy…

ELEVATOR SHOES THAT REALLY WORK!

When you don our specially enchanted footwear, you will be able to appear up to six inches taller than you really are, but thats just a side benefit.The really fun part of owning a pair of our ELEVATOR SHOES THAT REALLY WORK is that they can become stilts that raise you up as high as 60 feet!Thats right, six-stories above the ground.What a surprise for those thinking you are stuck below.

Elevator Shoes that Really Work:	22.299 crowns

Its just a piece of pipe, so let him keep it.

EMPTY TUBE PLOY

Wherever you are placed in durance vile, youll want to have this little number around.By keying some item that could fit through the opening, when you speak its name, the EMPTY TUBE PLOY will produce that item, the end extruding for each grab and pull.Be it a rope, magical wand, of anything that you like, if the two-inch diameter opening is of a size, it is yours then and there.Reusable!

Empty Tube Ploy:	17,078 crowns

Youll be a hit anywhere wearing one of these!

ENCHANTED TABARDS WITH A MESSAGE

Now you can say it without opening your mouth.Let everyone know just who you are, what you think, by sporting one of our ENCHANTED TABARDS WITH A MESSAGE.Have fun, put the clods in their place, and enjoy an additional 10% armor protection while doing so.Caution, tabard (jupon or surcoat) must be worn lettering out, with the message plainly visible!

Enchanted Tabards with a Message:	19,998 crowns each	

When you  your order, you must include a depiction of any armorial bearings desired.Be sure to specify size (S. M, L. XL, XXL, XXXL, or Jumbo) and wording desired.Add 10% for jupon or surcoat styles.

(Arms of state selected above:) CHIEF HEADSMAN

(Arms of state selected above:) CROWN SPY

(Arms of state selected above:) MOST WANTED OUTLAW

(Arms of state selected) OFFICIAL ASSKICKER

(Arms of state selected above:) ROYAL FAVORITE

(Arms of state selected above:) SUPERCILIOUS FOP

(Insert name of profession or race above:) HAPPEN.So does elimination!

(Insert name of profession or race above:) RULE, so KNEEL OR ELSE!

(Your armorial bearings above:) Of course I am more noble than you, SCUM!

Beware! I am a Wicked Wizard!

Bow or be zapped!

Bow or eat steel!

Death to all (insert name of race or profession)!

Dwarves make good bowling pins.

Elves, fairies, whats the difference?

Go ahead and say something.Thatll be your last words…

Got a sister that aint ugly like you?

Honest, Im not a thief, and I didnt cut your purse…BOZO!

I can out-drink, anyone anytime, anyplace!

Idiots are the only ones who read this crap…You fit the bill.

I have a warrant for your arrest.

Im a/an (insert race) assassinwanna make something of it?

If youre buying, Im drinking.

If your doxy is around, dont blame me if wants me instead of you, punk!

Payment? I dont give out no stinkin payment!

Read this and you have given me mortal insult.

So you are someones lackey, whats that to be uppity about?!

Surrender AND die!

Why not give me your valuables now and save us both the hassle?

Will work for gold.

Worlds best sorcerer.

Worlds greatest lover.

Worlds most pious priest.

Worlds toughest warrior.

Your sister works in my string of doxies.

ZAP!See you arent totally stupidnow you can read.

Wow! I gotta get one of those…

ENSORCELLED FRIGHT WIG

Put on this head covering mop of bristling hair and watch the fun!Your acquaintances will be taken aback by the sudden change.Your face becomes as horrific as any demons, and check out the horns and fangs youll seemingly sport when wearing the ENSORCELLED FRIGHT WIG.Great to frighten not only women and little children, but even doughty adventurers will shrink back from your visage.Thats only half the joke though.Only you know the secret command word needed to remove the tonsorial addition.Give it to another and what a riot!The rube will be stuck with it.Time to call for the guard to slay the vile creature thats appeared…

Ensorcelled Fright Wig:	4,499 crowns

How did an elephant get in the closet?

EXPANDING DUNG JOKE

Just add a pint or more of any sort of liquid to the putty-like lump, and stand back.Each pint of fluid makes the steaming heap grow larger, and a gallon will bring it into full flower.Thats when your EXPANDING DUNG JOKE will fill a bushel basket, and everyones nose with its stench for a dozen yards in all directions.For even bigger belly laughs, the trick dung has maggots and beetles too, leaves a nasty, hard-to-remove stain.

Expanding Dung Joke:	199 crowns

That BLASTED baby just wont stop crying...

EXPLODING BABY DOLL

This baby puts the BOO in boo-hoo.Guaranteed to raise the maternal instincts of even the most battle hardened shield-maiden this adorable, absolutely life like doll is set to explode as soon as anyone pats its back.Just a word from you, and thanks to Adept Wizard-designer Nojcref, the EXPLODING BABY DOLL starts crying, but then stand back!Those caught in the instantaneous blast might as well have been hit by a battering-ball.

Exploding Baby Doll: Hurry!Limited availability:	40,000 crowns

Smashes armor and the wielders hand too!

EXPLODING MACE

What a riot when the valiant warrior smites foe and loses hand in the process!The smitee takes twice normal harm from the effect, so does the smitor.Thats because the EXPLODING MACE is enspelled so as to go off with a flash and a roar when the possessor aims a blow in anger using this loaded weapon.Expect plenty of applause for pulling off a stunt like this, especially if the one made the butt of the prank is a bully or lawman.

Exploding Mace: A limited supply at only	3,900 crowns	

Worth a Kings Ransom?

FAUX GEMS

Think of the expression on the face of your mark when one of these perfect stones implodes with a rude noise!Thats because from one to 20 minutesyou set the time-after someone other than you handles one of your FAUX GEM it self-destructs, leaving behind a smear of excrement.Gems range in size from 11 to 40 carats in weight, so they are impressive!Great for jokes or bribes, but not recommended as a means of fund raising…

Faux Gems:

12 Dubious Diamonds:	250 crowns

15 Ersatz Emeralds:	275 crowns

20 Spurious Sapphires:	300 crowns

30 Pseudo Pearls:	350 crowns

25 Assorted Phony Gems in pouch:	425 crowns

Thats as phony as a lead bezant!

FAKE ARM

When the mark says something to that effect, be ready for a laugh riot!Because you have put this clearly phony arm someplace where it is a set-up-stuck in a slammed door, dangling from a chest or trunk, sticking out from some place it looks suspiciousthe suckers are about to get a surprise.While it looks hokey and harmless, our FAKE ARM is ensorcelled to be a virtual bear, and only you are safe from it.Just let someone come within reach, and it grabs them and holds on.Delivers punishment as if it were a club, and stays active for a dozen seconds before dropping off harmlessly.As a better joke, it thereafter springs into action if anyone comes within three feet of it, attacking as above, again and again.Tough and durable, with protection 100% guaranteed.

Fake Arm:	13,278 crowns

Step on itstinking roach!

FAKE COCKROACH

What the silly buffoons dont know will hurt em!That huge cockroach they see is really something pretty deadly.What a thighslapper when someone smashes it, because the FAKE COCKROACH is really a pair of slate slugs eager for the mating!Keep your mirth under control for at least a minute, though, so as not to warn the bozo that soon ll be host to a whole party of those little fellows…

Fake Cockroach:	1,742 crowns

Lets see if its locked…

FAKE DOOR LATCH

Youll have endless fun with this trick. Place one on a heavy panel so that tugging on the handle will cause it to fall on the sucker, splat! Stick several on the walls in a room that has no doors at all for instant confusion. Work great on just about any surface, as the dweomer of each FAKE DOOR LATCH bonds it to whatever you press it against. Imagine the fun when the dupe tries to break the door down.

Fake Door Latch:Set of 6	499 crowns

Psst! Someones behind those drapes!

FAKE FEET

With one or more pairs of these around, youll have intruders and other unwanted visitors jumping out of their skin. Each pair of our specially enchanted FAKE FEET are different in some aspect, will move slightly, and vanish as soon as whatever they protrude from is moves in an attempt to discover whats attached to them. In combination with a golem they can be a real howl…

Fake Feet:Per pair	299 crowns

Now whod be so stupid to-

FAKE FRIED WYRMS EGG

Nobody will be able to get much further than that if theres a real wyrm lurking anywhere nearby.This magical model will be sure to enrage these critters, because our FAKE FRIED WYRMS EGG looks and smells the same as an actual one.You just unroll it, then clear the area so as to watch the fun from a safe distance.

Fake Fried Wyrms Egg:	2,142 crowns

Look at all the blood and guts!

FAKE GORE

You got it all with this trick stuff.The local shambles have nothing on our FAKE GORE, from blood pools to brain splatterings, and plenty of innards and guts too.It will be hard to keep from laughing as the suckers are taken in by what appears to be your mangled corpse.Just unroll the seemingly normal cloak, don it, and lay down.The dweomer goes to work to make the horrid scene that anyone viewing you will think they see.Safe and sound under the illusion, you are ready to give the rubes what for, or lie doggo, as the situation calls for.This is a must for all likely to get into tight scrapes…

Fake Gore:	1,750 crowns

Anyone can tell thats phony!

FAKE RAT

Okay, prove it.When someone does, thats when the real fun begins.Any hard contact will trigger a gate, bring in a pack of three dozen hungry and reckless blackrats, because the FAKE RAT we sell is doubly dweomered for barrels of laughs.

Fake Rat:	1,472 crowns

That guys been in a lot of fights…

FAKE SCARS

Impress your friends, fool your enemies with this kit.There are six real-looking scars that you can display on face, limbs, or bodyfrom a two-inch cut to a foot-long gash.Even close examination wont reveal their phony nature because theyre double-enchanted!These FAKE SCARS are proof to all that you are a doughty warrior, seasoned in battle, and able to take it without flinching.Good for disguises or in presenting a pitiful persona, they are a great addition to any bag of tricks.

Fake Scars:	300 crowns

You may pass, friend.

FAKE TATTOO

Ever notice how difficult it is to get past sentinels that check for tattoos or brands sported by the faithful or authorized agents of some secret cult or society?Sure you have!Now with our FAKE TATTOO pack of five magical patches youll not be foiled.Get a look at the design sported, apply one of the patches to the proper place, and the secret mark appears magically on you!Non-permanent, the tattoo vanishes in about one hour, so dont linger…

Fake Tattoo:	478 crowns

Its darksomeone light that candle!

FIREBALL CANDLE

When you have one of these tapers awaiting, the fun is about to begin.You see, each of our special candles contain one or more fireworks hidden in body.When a sucker sets a FIREBALL CANDLE aflame, hold onto your hatand hold your sides at the same time, or else theyll split when you guffaw at the results.Within three seconds time after the wick is lit….schpuut!….wham!!!Out jumps the little colored orb to a height of 50 or more feet, but thats only outdoors.In an enclosed space it bounces around, leaving a sizzling track too.In two or three seconds time after launch comes the real laugh.The orb blossoms into a fiery sphere of six-foot diameter, delivers a great mix of both explosive shock and fire harm of 9-12 points to all in or within  of it, stunning and dazzling others unfortunately not so close.

Available in single-, triple-, and six-shot repeater models.

Fireballs Candle:	1,500 crowns per shot

Lets stop and smell the roses.

FLAMING FLOWERS

Put a dozen of these realistic flowers into and settinga vase, pot, or outside bedand youll have a sure-fire comedy to watch as some dupe sniffs at them.Thats because out FLAMING FLOWERS emit a gout of fire thatll singe the whiskers off a dragon!As soon as anyone comes within a foot of a bloom the whole dozen go off.Each tongue of flame is three feet longas hot as a torch.Together they really deliver a withering red glory, burning in the process, of course, but leaving you laughing.

Flaming Flowers:	2,200 crowns

Which is the pointy end?

FLACCID SWORD

Change this flatchet for your marks actual brand, and then be prepared for some belly laughs.The heka energy of this antic weapon makes it appear exactly like the blade it has replaced.The gag is, the FLACCID SWORD turns to a safe, soft and bendable substance whenever it is used to strike an opponent in anger.Otherwise, it is just as sharp and sturdy as a real sword….only you know otherwise.Recommended to sword-swipers as a great joke replacement for the purloined blade!

Flaccid Sword:	34,900 crowns

Look there, a huge star sapphire!

FLEEING GEM TRICK

Just as the rube bends to grab it, the gem slips away.The harder the sucker tries, the more elusive the precious gem becomes.Thats because youve dweomered the gem so as to be touchable only by you.Barrels of fun as when a whole party dives for one and bonk heads!The FLEEING GEM TRICK comes with everything you need except the gemstone.

Fleeing Gemstone Trick:	779 crowns

He must be a fiend!

FLOATING EYEBALL

Seemingly a human eyeball floating in some liquid, this marvelous little item is more than a gag. Right! You choose the pace and the medium-water, milk, beer, whatever. Then dump the FLOATING EYEBALL in and feel secure. Any movement within 30 feet of it triggers a magical transmission that enables you to see as if it were your own ocular. Can be concealed for peep-show fun too.

Floating Eyeball:	3,549 crowns

Where did this swarm of insects come from?!

FLY PAPER

What appears to be a sticky strip of paper meant to attract flies is really a potent attractor of all sorts of these pests, house flies, deer flies, horse flies, you name it. A single strip is guaranteed to summon no fewer than 1,000 of these insects to its vicinity in just one hours time. The sucker, be simpleton or sage, will be driven to distraction by our FLY PAPER. When you get it, be sure not to unroll the paper and hang it up until you are ready to beat feet. Many of the sorts of flies summoned deliver painful bites…

Fly Paper, one strip	149 crowns

If pigs had wings theyd…

FLYING PORKER PLOY

Who isnt tired of the old saw about wings on pigs?We all are, but only Weyland Smith has done something about it. Thats right, with our unique FLYING PORKER PLOY this becomes a matter of fact.Just read the magical incantation we supply, and every pig within your sight and no further distant than 100 feet will sprout mighty pinions and take to the air in full flight.This is not a mere prank to amaze bores using the trite statement; think of the hilarious time if the subjects are wild boars intent on mayhem!No worries about personal attack either, as all aerial porcines will believe you to be a harmless object to be ignored.Laugh for up to an hour as the flying porkers attack or simply fertilize the land from above.

Flying Porker Ploy:	1,999 crowns

Its a bird!Its a bat!No, but what the hell is it?

FLYING WIG

Only you can decide how many great uses there are for this hilarious hairpiece.Great for a switch with the rug worn by that bald-headed chump you want to humiliate.Perfect for a practical joke when it takes off from your own dome.The FLYING WIG has as many hoots in store as you care to imagine.It takes off like a bat out of hell whenever you will it, flaps and flutters in one place, zooms and soars for up to 200 feet distance from you.(Not recommended for multiple use by the same person.)

Flying Wig:	817 crowns

Watch out, that fellow is rabid!

FOAMING POWDER

Plant this white, tasteless powder in salt or sugar or any like thing used directly on food.The unsuspecting saps who consume it will soon be in for as big a surprise as you are in for merriment.Thats because the FOAMING POWDER reacts with their saliva to create about a gallon of frothy bubbles that come streaming uncontrollably from the victims mouth.No holding back, no swallowing, and sure to elicit fear from those seeing the torrent of frothy goo!Enough in one box to blight a dozen persons.

Foaming Powder:	511 crowns

Nothing like a good night rest…

FOLDING BED

Tired of those blasted spell-casters who go to bed as weak as kittens, get up ready to blast basilisks to bits?So are we!Thats why were offering you the chance to get even with the swine.Just make sure they couch on our FOLDING BED and theyll sleep tight, all rightvery tight, as it molds to their body and compresses them so as to cause a night of utmost discomfort.No magical high-jinx next morning for the wizard you dupe into stretching out on this inviting-looking feathery recliner. Special padding prevents any thrashing about or outcry, so you are undisturbed.Releases its victim only upon your command, of course.Also comes in comfy chair model.

Folding Bed:	17,195 crowns

Folding Bed, Comfy Chair Model:	11,895 crowns

That fellow is a slobout with him!

FOLDING SPO0N

What fun youll have when you provide one or more of your marks with this little novelty. It looks like a finely made eating utensil, solid silverethen you say the command work, one or more spoons in your set will hinge just past the bowl, so the FOLDING SPOON dumps its load directly onto the lap or front of the rube thinking  about to savor something tasty, great for embarrassing someone allowing another to taste something too. The action is so fast that only the sharpest eye can catch the trick before its back as a seemingly normal, rigid spoon.

Folding Spoon: each only	249 crowns

I can easily predict the future!

FORTUNE TELLING CARDS NEVER FAIL

Of course youll not fail in doing that, foreseeing what is to come.When you use our special cards after carefully reading and understanding the instruction booklet that comes with them, youll be an expert!With the FORTUNE TELLING CARDS NEVER FAIL deck in hand your auguries and divinations will be enhanced by a factor of up to 200% their former potency.Think of that and order yours today.

Fortune Telling Cards Never Fail 		37,500 crowns

Look out!That statues eyes are glowing…

GARGOYLE WATCHER

All those who love our special Good Joss Foo Dog statue likewise praise this special sculpture.Thats because its scarlet-hued glass eyes light up with hellish brilliance whenever anyone comes within 30 feet of its head.In fact, if you dont want to speak the command for not doing so, the GARGOYLE WATCHER makes an excellent night light!Sure to startle intruders, amaze the ignorant, and at the same time alert its owner to the presence of unexpected visitors.Note: Communication range depends on number of magical batteries installed, a 25- to 100-foot range distance for one, two, three, or four energy cells.Magical batteries sold separately, with a life of up to one year each in operation, a five-year storage life.

Gargoyle Watcher 	18,489 crowns

Magical Battery for this item, each:	998 crowns

That guy has a really great party outfit.

GHOST COSTUME

When you don this scary costume for the ball or like fete, youll not only look scary, youll be scary. Thats because the heka imbued in the winding sheet actually empowers you to become ghostlike at will, in only one second time too! Wearing out GHOST COSTUME means you can mix with the elite at palace or cemetery. Perfect for slipping through walls to get that something special out of the strong room too. Reusable, but subject to wear and tear when in material form. Not recommended for use around members of the clergy.

Ghost Costume:	111,999 crowns

Those arent your normal pismires, are they?

GIANT ANT FARM

You can watch one-inch-long versions of the worlds tiniest engineers dig tunnels, build roads, and erect bridges thanks to our 10-foot square by six-inch deep GIANT ANT FARM.Not only can you see them plan and construct passages and caverns, move mountains right before your very eyes, we have more in store!Convince a sucker to stare at it for a few minutes, imagine an ant…voila!The dweomer in this case shrinks the poor sap to ant size, and and all  and hold  caught inside the case.What fun watching what happens then!Connect several of them to create an entire giant ant village.Complete with shatter proof crystal-glass case, clean tunneling sand, and 1,000 eggs ready to place in and hatch.

Giant Ant Farm:	353,895 crowns

Oh, how scary!A big, stuffed bat…

GIANT BAT

Even though this baby has a three-foot wingspan, anyone with a brain can see its dead and stuffed.Not really scary, and not about to attack anyone either, our GIANT BAT does have a very special purpose.When you say the word, its enchanted power is loosed, you shrink to one-tenth size, are instantly placed on its back, and ride it as it flies off for up to a 50 mile distance before its magical energy returns it to its inert state.One time use only.You return to normal size on dismounting.

Giant Bat:	31,809 crowns

Are you a real entomologist?

GIANT BUG JAR

Watch as huge stag beetles, rhinoceros beetles, stink bugs, centipedes, wasps, and more rollick in the greatest bug keeper ever!The locked and sealed transparent observation dome enables viewing from any angle and is six feet at its apex, has a diameter on nine feet. Magically ventilated to provide air.Hours of fun for you, and if you convince a sucker to stare at it for a few minutes, imagine  an insect…voila!The dweomer in this jar shrinks the poor sap to  size, and and all wear and hold caught inside the dome.What fun watching what happens then!Fully functioning ecosystem, complete with shatter proof crystal-glass dome, water and special food transporter, and 3,000 various insect and spider eggs that begin hatching when you add water to the system.

Giant Ant Farm:	481,095 crowns

Take-That! Mighty rod with dozens of hilarious results…

GIMMICKED MAGES STAFF

That uppity enchanter or overweening geourge thats troubling you wont be so smug for long!Not if you manage to slip this beauty, that is.The GIMMICKED MAGES STAFF reverses activations, adds to the health of a foe struck by it, and slows the wielders Speed as were wearing full plate armor.Not good enough?Well. When in a confrontational situation, this stupendous stick has a whole range of special effects too.In the two-score programmed into it are such lively surprises as:

	The wielder glows a bright pink visible for a mile

	Invisible trumpets blare fanfares for a full minute

	Rain falling from a tiny cloud above the dupes head

	Temporary weight gain of 100%

	Skylarks in a flock circling in a confusing cloud

	Temporary height loss of 50%

	Lice and fleas infest the wielder and all creatures within 10 feet

	A fountain of sparks from the staff, aimed at the wielders feet!

	Instant loss of all head hair (not permanent, but must re-grow)

	and a host of other rollicking little results

Gimmicked Mages Staff:	65,000 crowns

Nobody will notice us here…

GLIDING EYEBALLS TRICK

Thats what they think!When you are equipped with this mysterious little number, you will be able to remove your oculars and send them off to see.Thats right the GLIDING EYEBALLS TRICK enables you to send both up to 100 feet distant, see, and return safely to your head (most of the time).Enchantment lasts for as long as five minutes before it dissipates.

Gliding Eyeballs Trick: One-time only use!!!	1,498 crowns

This will disguise me…

GLOWING, FLASHING HEADGEAR

When the rube takes the bait, you know that high times are near at hand.Thats because whenever anyone glances with the least suspicion at the wearer of any style of our GLOWING, FLASHING HEADGEAR, its dweomer is triggered.The hood, cap, or hat lights up, changes color, and marks the wearer as the target.Great for slipping away unnoticed as the shimmering, sparkling, gaudy headgear attracts all the attention. 

Glowing, Flashing Headgear:

Cap:	1,750 crowns

Hood:	1,850 crowns

Hat (wide brim):	1,950 crowns

The rubes will just have to have it!

GOLDEN SAMPO

Set up the sucker, then let greed take over.This scam is sure-fire.Have the mark inspect your magical mill as much as want.Then put in any sort of cheap metal, turn the crank, and out come up to 20 gold coins.Of course, the GOLDEN SAMPO produces phony, gold-plated lead coins after the first time, but by then youll be history in the area.The counterfeiter is likely to swing too!Works once per week only, of course.Suggested resale price is $50,000youve pocketed the 10,000 crowns, and that gives a profit for you of over 40 big ones.

Golden Sampo:	19,775 crowns

Thats a lucky-looking thing, so be sure and touch it.

GOOD JOSS FOO DOG

Every one who sees your miniature replica of this creature glowing in golden color, its eyes like sparkling diamonds will be sure it brings good fortune and luck.Wrong!This one-foot-high statue is meant to fool the unwary, thieves included, into giving it a pator attempting to make off with it.Our special GOOD JOSS FOO DOG is made of gilded lead, has silvered glass eyes, and sports a nasty little curse.Anyone but you touching your little totem will suffer a loss of joss (bringing 10% chance for unfavorable results to anything undertaken thereafter.The hex works for one hours time for each second in contact with it, so its a real howl when thieves are concerned!The curse is permanently imbued so stays active in the statue until removed.

Good Joss Foo Dog 	22,450 crowns

Ware the cursed oculars!

GOOEY GLOWING EYEBALLS GAG

Send these out, and clods will sure to think them something else.The fun begins when they smith them, though, because these GOOEY GLOWING EYEBALLS are made of volatile heka force.One tap and….BLAM!All within a yard are treated to a blow as if a heavy mace lambasted them.You can be up to 60 feet away, watching and laughing when this happens.

Gooey Glowing Eyeballs:	7,150 crowns

Those are what I call real popeyes!

GOOFY GOGGLING EYES

Clap these self-adhering cusps over your eyes, and have a laugh riot.When you stare directly at anyone with 10 feet, if they look back theyre convulsed with laughter, cant do anything but guffaw for several seconds while you can take full advantage to the suckers hilarity.Better still, the GOOFY GOGGLING EYES are enchanted to detect otherwise invisible things up to 100 feet distant. So you can send sneaks into gales of laughter too…before sending them to somewhere else!

Gooey Glowing Eyeballs:	15,980 crowns

Get your big butt off me!

GROANING CHAIR

Whenever your victim sits down in your special GROANING CHAIR, theres sure to be mirth and merriment!Each seat is enspelled so as to make a rude remark that can be heard by all around.The repertoire of snide sayings and nasty noises is random, and includes: Youre crushing me!, Phew! What stinks?, Fffluuut!, Watch it, hippo hips!, Oh, the pain of such weight!,and a score more so as to entertain time after time.

Groaning Chair:

Padded Armchair:	1,500 crowns

Throne-like Armchair:	1,750 crowns

Wooden Armchair:	1,250 crowns

Theres Gold in that Strongbox!

HALLUCINATORY X-RAY OCULAR

When this eyepiece is used by your unsuspecting dupe, all hidden is revealed…..Thats because the spells used on this gag affect the users brain!Whatever think is likely to be hidden inside a coffer or chest is what see.Of course, to set the sucker up, the first time the HALLUCINATORY X-RAY OCULAR is used, it really does allow x-ray vision.Prove it works, then sell it or give it away, send the chump off to see the hidden world.

Hallucinatory X-Ray Ocular:	1,850 crowns

This one is unarmed.

HARMLESS HANDLE JOKE PONIARD

All you have is the hilt of a broken daggerso the sucker thinks.Then watch the fun when you speak the secret command and nine inches of cold steel shoot forth to skewer the chump!Yes, youll be the one laughing as the sure-shot action of the HARMLESS HANDLE JOKE PONIARD pierces normal armor to make your point…

Harmless Handle Joke Poniard:	19,195 crowns

Theres the door weve been looking for!

HILARIOUS EXIT HOAX

Brought to you from the devious magical artisans at Hackme, Inc., heres something youll love for fooling others or setting up something fun. From a palm-sized plaque of rare wood, there appears a dungeon door that fits the environment automatically, sets up on the wall,  or ceiling too. You pre-program the HILARIOUS HOAX EXIT to run one of four illusory backgroundscontinuing dungeon corridor, treasure room, outdoor scene, or underground grotto. What a riot when the unsuspecting sap dashing through this door gets a face full of rock! Only you know how to take the door down, change it back into a pocket-sized plaque. The special DELUXE VERSION contains a fifth option, an actual portal to another door somewhere on your world or to a different dimensional matrix. You name the linked door, or the factory selects a dimensional matrix at random so that endless surprises are possible.

Hilarious Exit Hoax:	12,498 crowns

Hilarious Exit Hoax, Deluxe Version:	99,895 crowns

Giddiyup my stalwart…sapling?

HORSE TO SAWHORSE TRICK

This is more than a barrel of laughs.Use the special powder on courser or destrier, and when its owner leaps into the saddle, the big surprise comes.No sooner than mounted on the steed than it turns to a sawbuck!The HORSE TO SAWHORSE TRICK is fun anywhere, doubly useful in foiling pursuit by constable or irate husband.Makes you the equal of many a hedge magician too.Each package contains sufficient magical dust to affect one large horseor even a camel.

Horse-to-Sawhorse Trick:	12,900 crowns

Take a look, and see what the weather is like.

ILLUSION WINDOW

Weyland Smith is proud to bring you this hilarious pane for use in any aperture in your domicile!We shape it to the size ordered, ship immediately.You simply command mentally the view a sucker sees when peering through it.Rain?Sure!Sunny and warm?Of course.Your merest whimsical thought is the command of the ILLUSION WINDOW, and we guarantee it will more than astonish all.

Illusion window:	975 crowns per square foot

Only I can make it obey…

IMP IN A BOTTLE

This clear crystal container has a sure-enough fiend imp held inside.At your command it will produce drink, food, even silver coins (only when a mark is present and in limited quantities only).All you need do is speak, and the imp obeys (subject to Infernal Union rules of course).Assured that the little fiend can do more, the sucker is sure to want to swipe your valuable IMP IN A BOTTLE.And thats the time to laugh, of course.The imp is freed whenever someone else possesses its jug, tries to boss it about.Better still, the irate mite will be able to call on a big-time brother to assist in his vengeance.Sure to cause a lot of ruckus wherever it happens!

Imp in a bottle:	7,198 crowns

This place sure looks familiar…

IN AGAIN DOORWAY

None other than Weyland Smith himself designed this hilarious device, a devious doorway that brings the rube right back where  started from when exiting the portal. Theres no escape from laughter when you observe the bewilderment of your mark when the door is opened,  through, and back where started because of the IN AGAIN DOORWAY. No magic will reverse the effect, but the knowing user need not worry, for all it takes to actually leave by the portal is the activation word, a Hello! rather than no greeting or a Goodbye. The doorway is especially dweomered to fit any opening up to 10 tall by 5 wide. Just place the assembled kit against the opening and the prank is in operative mode!

In Again Doorway:	9,888 crowns

That pool of ink seems a bit unreal…

INK SPILL JOKE

Of course it looks fake.Youll be hiding in the wings watching as the lout bent on proving it grabs the solid puddle of black stuff.Hold your sides when that happens, because its instant hilarity.The INK SPILL JOKE is a dark amoeboid held in stasis until the mark touches it, then hsssst!Acid eats the rubes digits, maybe the whole rube as the hungry monster goes into action.

Ink spill Joke:	13,274 crowns

Thats a beautiful pendant!

INSECT IN AMBER GAG

It sure is!Real amber and a real live bug inside too.The gag begins when your special mark wears or holds near the beautiful globe of amber.Sustained body heat triggers a magical decomposition in just a few .Then the INSECT IN AMBER GAG is active.Bit, sting, or bothye-ouch!The insect or arachnid once contained in the drop of amber has delivered a strong venom guaranteed to leave a lasting impression on the wearer.

Insect in Amber Gag:	18,250 crowns

Whoa!This stuff sure keeps the mosquitoes away

INSECT REPELLANT

For a fact our special formula does make all the little beggars buzz off.Not a normal fly, gnat, midge, mosquitoeven wasps get lost when they get a whiff of the stuff.Thats because there are giant insect pheromones magically melded into the INSECT REPELLANT so that the sucker will draw the really big ones from up to five miles around!There are 20 applications in a bottle, and one application lasts for a full hour.Watch the fun as giant hornets or a swarm of giant ants come after the rube who put this stuff on.

Insect Repellant:	10,299 crowns

Im healthy as a horse…

INSTANT WORMS

Not for long, for when you put the powder in the marks meal, lace drink, it guarantees that gut will be packed with parasites in no time.The INSTANT WORMS hatch inside, and then the rube is sickly in hours, ready for some nasty vermifuge thatll lay him low for days.This great gag comes in a box of six applications.

Instant Worms:	2,750 crowns

Great for those taken captive, even better for you!

IRON MANACLES

These super-strong bracelets are connected with a stout iron chain a circus strongman cant break.They are enchanted to fit perfectly from one to six-inch diameter closure, and the lock is virtually pick-proof.Whoever has a pair of our IRON MANACLES clapped on wrists or ankles is sure to stay boundunless its you.Thats right, the joke is on whomever thinks theyll use em on their owner.You know the secret series of hidden pressure points to make them open magically without the use of a key.

Iron Manacles:	6,089 crowns

Could be the pox…

ITCHING POWDER

Just sprinkle this into bedding, under linens, padding for armor, someones cloak or boots.After about 10 minutes time a tiny tingling begins.Youll grin as the rube shifts uncomfortably, smile broadly as they begin to squirm, then guffaw as the ITCHING POWDER drives him crazy scratching. Lasts a full minute thereafter, and all actions of the mark at one-half normal too!Box of six applications.

Itching Powder:	3,750 crowns

A small token of esteem, Mlord…

JEERING BANNER

Wont your mark be surprised when this bright pennon with a puissant lion rampant proudly waving atop its gilded pole alters to a dirty rag and begins shouting insults?Sure!This guys a bum! and Beat the crap out of this clod! are just a couple of the many insults that will rain upon the bearers head when an enemy comes within earshot.No surprising the foe with the JEERING BANNER around, and some of the lines it utters are bound to enrage most who confront the chump waving it too.

Jeering Banner (with 10-foot pole):	950 crowns

Have at thee! …Oh, oh…

JOKE ARMOR

This protection is sure to cause a whale of a timefor the one not wearing it!Although it radiates a potent enchantment seems to be proof against mighty blows, when struck a third time, its dweomer causes it to crumble into tinfoil strips.JOKE ARMOR is the perfect present for the warrior on your special list!

Joke Armor: Comes in four styles:	

Steel Mail Half Armor (seemingly -12)	22,850 crowns

Steel Mail Full Armor (seemingly -18)	25,000 crowns

Steel Plate Half Armor (seemingly -16)	23,650 crowns

Steel Plate Full Armor (seemingly -22)	27,000 crowns

See around corners, over walls, even in complete darkness!

JOKE PERISCOPE

You know the secret. What a howler! Your mark doesnt though, so  bound to be excited when using this working novelty device. It extends to six-hoot length, enables viewing as noted, but our JOKE PERISCOPE does more. When someone unaware of the device is scoped out, the hilarity happens. Thats because the end of the device glows undetectably to the user, but looks like a beacon to the one being spied on. Sit back and watch the fun.

Joke Periscope:	3,199 crowns

Lets shake on the deal…

JOY ZAPPER

Concealed in your palm, this delightful little device brings joy to you as it zaps the rube.Thats right, our magical JOY ZAPPER delivers a good electrical shock to the victim.What a howl!For even better results select someone wearing armor, and be sure the mark is grounded.Works three to five times before the energy is depleted

Joy Zapper:	29,769 crowns

What a great looking drinking horn!

KA-BLAM WARE

Thats what the sucker will see when you have set the feasting board with this special stuff.Each piece of KA-BLAM WARE is triggered by raising it, or whats on it.When that happens, Ka-blam!!!What a riot as the suckers drink or food slops all over them, as their natural reaction does the trick.(Sorry, the exploding noise is non-harmful.)Specify drinking horn, tankard, or trencher when ordering.

Ka-Blam Ware:	189 crowns per piece

With this I can withstand even the hottest fire!

LETS PRETEND POTION

A million laughs are in store when a pigeon gets a hold of one of these clever little flasks.The heka imbued in the contents works perfectly.Whatever the dolt believes the stuff will do, it does.Thats right, the LETS PRETEND POTION performs magically for up to three seconds, then…pow!The Extraordinary effect is gone.Of course, if the thought was poison, and the pigeon quaffed, well too bad, huh?Otherwise, the fun can last for quite a while until the joke is discovered. Great when included with the other active elixirs offered herein too!

Lets Pretend Potion:	1,980 crowns

This is really tricky…

LEVITATING WAND

Not an activator at all but activated, this baton is a blast….literally!When you are within six feet of it, speak the charm, the stick floats up, then moves off like an angry hornet, making a beeline for the target you choose.The LEVITATING WAND will zip along at from knee to head height as you desire for up to 60 feet before it loses its energy.If it hits anything in its flight path, the wand sinks in like a quarrel from a hand catapult, then explodes for some additional strong harm.Youll get a bang out of making your point this way

Levitating Wand:	8,000 crowns

New shooter coming out!

LUCKY DICE

No need to trust to chance with this pair of special dice.We have dweomered each cube so that when you tell the pair what number you want, they deliver!Switch the house set and youll never lose…just dont get caught!The LUCKY DICE come in ivory and can be ordered in colors of black, red, green, or blue as well.Remember, whispering to your dice is the charm here...

Lucky Dice: Specify color if other than natural ivory	35,000 crowns

You sold our cow for what?

MAGIC BEANS

You pays your money and takes your chances with this grab bag o beans, kids.Each little sack holds 13 different beans, each one guaranteed to grow something quickly.When in contact with soil, any one of the MAGIC BEANS will sprout in a second, grow to full size in only a few more seconds time!What will it be?A vegetable of some sort, but it might be something that eats people…or a mighty vine that reaches the clouds.Thats right, strangling vines, shock-generating bushes, carnivorous trees, clutching thornsyou name it and it might be there!Fun and adventure await the daring with… 

Magic Beans:	6,899 crowns

This should provide us with illumination.

MAGIC LANTERN

What a howl when some sucker thinks to light way with your special lamp!Thats because this well-made and normal-seeming lantern is stoked with not merely fuel oil but a good reserve of netherforce.After only one minute of time has passed, shadowstuff is formed, takes the shape of whatever the one holding the MAGIC LANTERN most fears encountering in the dark.Better still, all those with the poor sap will also have to avoid being taken in, a pretty difficult thing (at only 3 X Speed BR or dexterity against a percentage chance), or else they too will be attacked by the boogey men! 

Magic Lanterna real bargain, on sale at only	5,788 crowns

How can so much come from there?

MAGIC MOUTH COIL

With this especially enchanted charm in your cheek youll amaze your friends, stupefy your enemies.Whether you want streamers of parti-colored silk, cord, cotton drapery, or even thick rope, you can produce it with our MAGIC MOUTH COIL.This one-time-only charm will enable the generation of yards and yards of whatever material you decide you want to, pulled forth at the rate of one foot a second, for up to two minutes time.

Magic Mouth Coil:	2,449 crowns

I can make any small item vanish.

MAGICAL DISINTEGRATOR

This is a sometimes dangerous, but usually rewarding novelty box.We have enchanted it and a twin.Leave one in your secure place, take the other along with you, bet the suckers you can make stuff disappear for good.From a seedcake to a sequined purse, whatever will fit into the one-foot square MAGICAL DISINTEGRATOR will vanish permanently when the lid is closed.The yuk is that you now have whatever it was elsewhere on the duplicate box, of course.Mind the irate marks, and be ready to take off in a hurry!

Magical Disintegrator:	2,606 crowns

That rukh in the welkin seems to be covered in mail!

MARVELOUS MECHANICAL BIRD

Real fun and adventure awaits.This amazing wind-up machine actually flies, and you and up to seven of your friends too, can ride along!You ride safely in little pits on the birds back as this rukh-sized automaton flaps its metallic wings (each fully 24 feet long) takes to the sky.You command the direction of the MARVELOUS MECHANICAL BIRD from the foremost seat, soaring at the speed of an eagle for up to 12  (less one hour per added passenger) before the mechanism needs rewinding.Forged from the finest of strong and lightweight metals, including tilferium!Takes one draft horse or six strong men to turn the winding capstan, 1,200 revolutions required to fully wind.Do not over-wind!

Marvelous Mechanical bird:	1,000,000 crowns

Let me buy you a drink.

MEET MICHAEL FINN

So old a ruse that it is new.Thats right, we are once again offering our special knockout powder, MEET MICHAEL FINN.Watch the marks eyes cross, see attempt to control muscles when realize youve slipped a Mickey into drink.Can you think of anything funnier?Well, maybe when he topples over and smacks the floor with a solid thud…Effect lasts for several hours and leaves a nasty hangover too!

Meet Michael Finn: Box of 12 packets	7,775 crowns

The ruby one commands, the sapphire obeys...

MIND CONTROL CROWNS

What a howl when you find a dupe that thinks to outsmart you with these trick crowns! Will the sucker figure the reverse, the gold-plated regalia with the big paste ruby is really the one that enables such power, not the like one with the phony sapphire? Or is your mark the perfect unsuspecting patsy? The jokes on them however it goes, because our MIND CONTROL CROWNS are both receivers, and its the little amulet you dont show em that enables you to dictate to one or even two dupes! Of course only relatively reasonable thought commands will be obeyed, just as if you were the lord and master, the wearer of the headgear the servant.

Mind Control Crowns (2):	109,705 crowns

Dont worry about Lefty…

MISSING ARM GAG

The rubes will be easy pickings when you are sporting this baby.The Power here makes your right arm totally invisible, shows the sucker only an empty sleeve.Thanks to the MISSING ARM GAG, your unseen hand can be filching,  and pinching, even ready with a keen edge to really surprise your audience!Works three times before losing its dweomer.

Missing Arm Gag:	15,000 crowns

Sick em, boy!

MOTION ACTIVATED GORILLA

Tired of having your place entered by unwelcome visitors?Or maybe you just want to have some fun with invited suckers?No matter.When you speak the command word, and movement in an open area of up to a 25-foot radius of our MOTION ACTIVATED GORILLA sets this monster into action!Better be out of the room, though, as it attacks any all, closest to furthest still standing.It is as big and tough as the most bestial of gorillas on your own worldcarnivorous ape or even a weregorilla.Maximum stats are guaranteed by the Smith himself.Magically self-regenerating unless reduced to 10% below normal health for such a creature.

Motion Activated Gorilla 	98,999 crowns

What a mess!

MUDDY BOOTS

This prankish footwear comes in both mens and womens styles, and in three patterns.These magical boots seem to allow silent steps, faster footwork, but only when it doesnt count.What a riot when suddenly the wearer discovers that they make a squelching sound and there are sloppy tracks left wherever  stepped, just as if the pristine-looking boots were covered with the worst sort of mire!MUDDY BOOTS dont leave their telltale tracks on ordinary streets but are enspelled to create their mess only indoors, on carpets, etc. when a give-away like this is bound to bring trouble

Muddy Boots: One size fits all.State color-Black, Brown, Cordovan, Tan.

Mens/Womens:	Ankle high:	300 crowns / 290 crowns

	Half-calf:	320 crowns / 305 crowns

	Knee:	350 crowns / 335 crowns

Only you know the secret to the…

MYSTERIOUS LEAPING MUMMY TRICK

The heavy sarcophagus stands upright, its lid closed.All is well until…Yow!The lid flies off and the monster is out of the box, so to speak.It springs out a full 10 feet to attack.What a belly laugh youll have then as the rubes scramble for cover…too late!Indeed, whatever sort of living-dead creature corresponds to a mummy on your world, thats what youll get when you buy our MYSTERIOUS LEAPING MUMMY TRICK.The monster, mummy, or  is guaranteed to be in top-stat form, ready to attack any and all, save you, that are in an open area and within a 30-foot radius.Self-regenerating unless brought to below 20% of normal health.Best of all, only you know the trick of keeping it in its place!Comes complete with the magical Ibis Stick of command for your specific mummy monster,

Mysterious Leaping Mummy Trick: 	129,299 crowns

Where can this lead to?

MYSTERY MAP

This seemingly old and valuable map must be turned and held this way and that to try to figure out where its train leads.In the process, the one doing so gets hands absolutely covered with soot!For each second the sucker the MYSTERY MAP, ll have a minutes time where whatever else  will be covered with sooty handprints.What a mess!

Mystery Map:	183 crowns

It really works, and it doesnt hurt at all!

NAIL-THROUGH-THE-HEAD GAG

Nail?Heck, its more like a giant, 18 spike!You pick it up, place it against your temple, and presto, you have a mammoth nail right through skull, brain, and out the other side.Others there can push it a bit either way, but only you can remove it.This complexly dweomered is sure to amaze.But heres the best part, you know the secret to the NAIL-THROUGH-THE-HEAD GAG, while others dont.If they try it, or let you show them, its curtains for the rube!Fatalist is 100% for all creatures with a skull thickness no greater than a very thick humanoids.Have fun and be rid of enemies to with our…

Nail-Through-the-Head Gag: 	31,399 crowns

Care for a cool drink?

NECTAR DE INFERNO

Expect a laugh riot when some bozo takes you up on the offeror surreptitiously swipes your jug and takes a swig.Made with a special lye formula that smells tantalizing, the NECTAR DE INFERNO keeps on burning all the way down!Water dilutes it a little, and acid, like in our Red-Hot Rations actually makes it as mild as dishwater.Sure to hit the unwary like a series of kicks to mouth, throat, chest, and a triple to the old gut! The sucker is ripe for the plucking after that, and not likely to accept drinks from you again…

Nectar de Inferno: One-pint Jug:	500 crowns

Just have her look in this, and shes putty in your hands…

NEVER-FAILING HYPNOTIC MIRROR

What buffoon wont fall for that line?Itll be a cinch to convince your mark that the little mirror you are loaning him is hypnotic.The laugh is on the bozo, though, for the one looking at the NEVER-FAILING HYPNOTIC MIRROR sees the bozos reflection with his true nature evident as an animal headan ass, dog, pig…whatever!Better still, that reflected head actually is the suckers own noggin for the next hour of time.What a laugh riot, and all in a little nine-inch silver disc on an ivory stand.

Never-Failing Hypnotic Mirror:	27,840 crowns

He needs a better advisor...

NIGHTS HELM

Laughs aplenty when your warrior chum dons this enchanted helm.While performing perfectly during practice, the helmets visor slips down and completely blocks vision as soon as real combat commences.It takes a minimum of 9 seconds to lift the visor and then guess what?It slips down again!Best of all, thanks to Adept Wizard-designer Nojcref, the NIGHTS HELM cannot be removed until the battle is over. 

Nights Helm:					 3,200 crowns

See without being seen!

NO JOKE PERISCOPE

Now you can spy on friends and enemies, check for monsters,or scout the terrain without being seen!Our special NO JOKE PERISCOPE up to a height of two feet, and allows you to see over things or around corners with a magnification of 10 power and a wide angle of vision (30 degrees). Comes complete with a padded leather carrying pouch.

No Joke Periscope:	7,219 crowns

Perfect for salesmen and other marauders…

NO VISITORS DOORMAT

Sick and tired of unwanted callers at your door?Whether its a bill collector, law official, or ravenous troll, the problem is solved with our special unwelcome mat!This 3 x 5 pad is dweomered to blend perfectly with whatever surface you flop it down on.With out added enchantment, the NO VISITORS DOORMAT cant miss!The unwelcome would-be guest is sent plummeting 100 down a chute to a null-space cell where the chump will languish for centuries as if a genie in a bottle.Only you know the command word to pick up the mat, see whats in the trap…or release your victim.

No Visitors Doormat:	99,999 crowns

This old trick wont fool me!

OLD SHELL GAME

Set up your marks, then let the suckers bet all they like.Not a sleight-of-hand trick, our OLD SHELL GAME has a teleporting pea!They can search your hands and find nothing there, and when the last shell is turned, theres the pea.Not only is this a great laugh but also a sure-fire money-maker.Only you know the tiny gesture that operated this Extraordinary Item.

Old Shell Game:	24,577 crowns

Hubba-hubba!

ONE-WAY TRANSPARENT STONE BLOCK

Wow!She sees a solid stone wall, you look through a block as clear as air.Put a few of these special building stones in your stronghold and you are sure to have the advantage of guests….invited or otherwise.From one side the ONE-WAY TRANSPARENT STONE BLOCK is completely opaque, from the other it is absolutely transparent, both sides as hard as fine ashlar too!Size is a standard one yard square by one foot in thickness.

One-Way Stone Block: only	500 crowns (plus shipping*)

*Weight one-quarter , shipped FOB

Now we have you!

OUT-ON-A-LIMB SAW

You can imagine the howls of range and pain too, as you saw through the tree limb you are on, and the tree crashes down while you remain afloat and save on your unsupported branch.Thats because our dweomered OUT-ON-A-LIMB SAW lays low the bole, keeps you levitated on the limb.The branch you sit on then floats gently to the ground, you safe and sound to laugh at your maimed pursuers.

Out-on-a-Limb Saw:	3,612 crowns

This ones on me!

PERFECT REPLICA JOKE COIN

You can be the big spender with only a paupers purse with these gimmicked beauties.They look like pure gold, but each PERFECT REPLICA JOKE COIN is nothing but ensorcelled tin.No normal test will reveal the prank you are pulling, but look out for cold iron.One touch and the gold turns back to its real stuff.Imagine the look that will get from the rube!

Perfect Replica Joke Gold Coin:

One-half ounce coin (a can as heads)	3,000 crowns

One ounce coin (a pail as heads)	5,000 crowns

Whats the big occasion?

PHANTOM MARCHING BAND

As soon as any sucker picks up the baton you have left laying around the sound of a 100-pece marching band breaks out in full forcetrumpets, cymbals, fifes, drums, the whole array of such instruments in a blaze of soundthe noise made by a loud and cacophonous PHANTOM MARCHING BAND. The sound is guaranteed to be heard for a mile or more outdoors, and some claim it is loud enough to wake the living dead! Note that the activation baton functions only once.

Phantom Marching Band (single-function baton)	875 crowns

Hes feathered like a pigeon!

PHONY ARROW PIERCING

Just slap on one or more of these little numbers to fool the fools!When so applied, it looks as if the place you touched with the PHONY ARROW PIERCING is where a clothyard shaft struck deeply.While you laugh up your sleeve, the rubes will be sure to take you for a goner.Each pack contains a dozen transfers.

Phony Arrow Piercing:	280 crowns

Be whatever you want to be!

PHONY PROFESSIONAL MATERIALS

No more worry about how others see you with this sure-fire kit.From lowest to highest, youll be received accordingly when you have used your PHONY PROFESSIONAL MATERIALS kit to deck you out in the proper style.Each kit comes in a sturdy containera double-strength sack for the Beggars form, a (semi-precious) jewelstudded trunk for the aristocratic.Each kit contains a full costume, credentials (emblems, insignias, scrolls, signet, rings, wanted posters, etc.) proper for the role, and all the usual tools of the trade (no enchanted items or high quality weapons, of course, and no mounts).

Phony Professional Materials: Choose the role you will play!Great for parties!

Assassin	1,750 crowns

Barbarian	1,000 crowns

Beggar	680 crowns

Engineer	2,500 crowns

Fortune Teller	2,013 crowns

Highwayman	1,995 crowns

Knight	10,000 crowns

Mariner	950 crowns

Merchant	7,500 crowns

Minstrel	1,400 crowns

Necromancer	6,666 crowns

Noble*	27,500 crowns

Nomad	1,175 crowns

Outlaw	1,001 crowns

Priest	5,000 crowns

Priestess	4,500 crowns

Prince	28,500 crowns

Princess	30,000 crowns

Savage	800 crowns

Sea Captain	2,500 crowns

Sheriff	4,250 crowns

Soldier	2,750 crowns

Sorcerer	6,666 crowns

Thief	1,500 crowns

Tinker	1,400 crowns

Witch	6,613 crowns

Wizard	6,660 crowns

*Indicate number of acorns on arming cap. 2 = baronet, 4 = baron, 6 = viscount, 8 = count, 10 = marquis, 12 = duke.

Please dont throw that obviously fake rock at me…

PHONY ROCK

Made of finest cork, badly painted to look like stone, this two-foot diameter wouldnt fool a dolt…or would it?Easy to lift, you can toss it to a distance of up to 30 feet.What a joke on whomever catches it!Thats because the PHONY ROCK is enchanted to change to real gneiss upon contact with any solid substance after being thrown three or more feet. Nice, eh? From a mere 10 pounds, the solid stone hitting the one on the receiving end weighs 200 pounds, hits like a giant hurled it.Laughs galore!

Phony Rock:	2,775 crowns

Thats a really funny looking cactus…

PINCUSHION CACTUS PLANT

No joke there. This big, tough cactus is odd looking, seems to be a hassock-sized, plump green cushion that stuck full of dart-sized needles. The real joke is when a rube comes within 20 feet of this baby.Unless its special name is spoken, our PIN CUSHION CACTUS shoots forth a stream of dart-like needles in a 15 degree radius, to 20 feet distance. Anything there suffers four attacks, each dart having a 50% chance of hitting. The plant volleys thus every minute. Comes in pot ready to plant. Each year the well-tended cactus will add 5 inches girth, increase its range by 5 feet, adds 5% to base accuracy too, so a 10-year-old beauty has a 70-foot range and 100% accuracy! Growth guaranteed if properly fed.

Pincushion Cactus Plant:	20,899 crowns

WS Cactus Food: Gallon Jug	999 crowns	

Now my old meerschaum will taste better…

PIPE SWEETENER GAG

Give it as a gift, or slip the stuff into the bowls of a suckers pipe collection yourself.Either way, a few drops guarantees an hilarious time.The PIPE SWEETENER GAG not only makes the tobacco burn with an odor like garbage, but the smoker will be nauseous and retching for a handful of hours afterwards.One bottle does six pipes.

Pipe Sweetener Gag:	108 crowns

They dont call em ha-has for nothing!

PIT & HOLE HIDER

Is there anything more hilarious than seeing someone pitch headlong into a pit, step into a hole?This is always great for a big laugh from spectators.Well, with this special matting, you can assure that you and your friends are on hand for the merriment.Our PIT & HOLE HIDER package comes with sufficient filmy matting to cover 100 square feet of any surface, and the magical illusion active on it makes it blend perfectly with whatever is around it.

Pit & Hole Hider: Limited quantities, so hurry!	3,998 crowns

In but 12 easy lessons youll be able to…

PLAY THE LUTE LIKE A MINSTREL

How can you pass up this marvelous and magical instruction book?Everyone wants to be the hit of the fete, the most popular guest at the revel!Each of the dozen chapters in it takes you step-by-step through how to PLAY THE LUTE LIKE A MINSTREL.When you reach the end youll be a skilled soloist with lute or other instrument you choose (see below).Guaranteed to give you the ability to perform as advertised.Reading time only 12 days.

Practice required, those already able to play, including minstrels, guaranteed only a maximum of 10% addition to their skill.

Play the Lute Like a Minstrel tome, only…	37,950 crowns

also…

Play the Mandolin Like a Minstrel	37,750 crowns

Play the  Like a Minstrel	37,550 crowns

Faster than a speeding kangaroo!

POGO STAFF

While it seems to be an ordinary length of sapling you use to assist you in your weary walking, this is an excellently enchanted device sure to amaze your friends, confuse your enemies too.All you need to do is trigger the POGO STAFF magical function, climb on its pegs, and off you go.Each jumping action you make sends it, and you along with it, sailing ahead in an arc thats 10 high, 30 long.Travel this way is as fast as a galloping horse, but some experience is required.Caution, can be hazardous when used on rough ground.

Pogo Staff:	4,789 crowns

He escaped using a magic span, but he left it behind so we can follow!

PORTABLE BRIDGE SURPRISE

Theres a great deal of magic involved in this prank, and were doubly sure youll appreciate it when the time comes. The tiny model of  arched bridge can be kept handy in pouch or pocket. When needed just speak the magic work written on it, and the PORTABLE BRIDGE SURPRISE vanishes in an instant, reappears as a span of 6 width that is up to 60 feet long. You and anyone with you can cross it safely in no time at all. The surprise comes when some jerk after you tries the same thing. As the fool nears the middle, what should appear but the greatest, ugliest troll in the worldmean hungry, and not about to move. Any attacker that hits this fellow will be pitched over the side if the troll hits in return. What a scream!

Portable Bridge Surprise: Single use only	45,298 crowns

More Bahs! than a pen full of sheep!

POSSESSED BATTERING RAM

Slip this little number into the besiegers battery of engines and watch the fun!The POSSESSED MATTERING RAM has ensorcelled into it a feisty Chaos Beast that will be really upset at having its head knocked into gate or wall.Turns into its true form in a flash, besets the offenders, runs rampant through their camp.A great morale booster and entertainment in one package.

Possessed Battering Ram: While they last…	150,000 crowns

Take a look at that buffoons headgear!

PROPELLER BEANIE

The rubes will suppose youre wearing our special cap as a joke, or because youre a fool, but the laugh is on them. All you need to do is say the magic word*, and your PROPELLER BEANIE goes into action. Falling is no problem, because the instant you activate it the lift from the whirling blade makes you light as a feather. As the edges of the blades are razor sharp, it also serves as a great prank item when someone wants to touch it…or when there are bonds to be severed.

Propeller Beanie:	24,199 crowns

*The beanie is fixed by enchantment upon your head, so only you can wear and remove it. Caution: Typical activation words for the propeller are multisyllabic and difficult, for obvious reasons. Examples: Aefleogorkinak, Bhrustmotyphos,Cthoxhrominip.

What a wonderful addition to my Powers!

PSEUDO POWERS

Can you imagine the happy look on the rubes face when discover a special new Power, a great Spell?Yah, sure…But you know it is a dud, or one that will bring a flock of birds or a carpet of chirping crickets instead of the advertised effect.Even if you arent on hand to see the result of activation, you know our PSEUDO POWERS are sure to dismay the would-be activator.Hilarious in being there, otherwise hours of enjoyment imagining the fate of the rube.

Specify Ability/Order desired when ordering.

Pseudo Powers: 

Single Power on Plaque	1,049 crowns

Three Powers on Memory Tablet	2,350 crowns

Grimoire of nine Powers	4,198 crowns

Read all the mental transmissions around you with our…

PSYCHOGENIC SPY HELMET

Don this snappy little number and all the psionic transmissions emanating from anywhere within a 30-foot radius are known to you.Thats right, you can mentally hear them just as if you were eavesdropping on someone nearby.No more psychic plotting behind your back, or mental calls for help by those you aim to get rid of when youre wearing our PSYCHOGENIC SPY HELMET. somewhat crumpled-looking metallic surface passes easily as a battered helmet, antenna might be mistaken as horns.Caution, surface of helmet must be exposed for proper operation, so do not cover it with a turban, cap, or any material.

Psychogenic Helmet: 	4,929 crowns

He must think the pen mightier than the sword…

QUILL TO QUARREL TRICK

The dullard thinks you have nothing but a scribes quill, then zip!That harmless feather becomes a deadly dart that flies with 90% accuracy to hit its markyours in fact.Our QUILL TO QUARREL TRICK packs a double punch too, as the ink is a toxic substance that adds a good bit to the harm done by the close-range shot from the quill. Has a full 20 charges too!(Range is limited to 30 feet.)

Quill to Quarrel Trick:	55,000 crowns

This is too obvious a ploy.

RATTLESNAKE EGGS

When your mark grabs the box warning that theres danger inside, caution will prevail.A listen reveals a rattling noise coming from inside, hands feel movement.Then most likely the chump will smash it or toss it away.Our double box of RATTLESNAKE EGGS is the secret of your delight and laughter.The hidden one is where the rattlers are, of course, and when the sound-projecting box is broken, then the one they are in is opened, and out come a half-dozen angry snakes raring to sink their fangs into flesh…from such surprise position as you have chosen, of course.The yolks on the one thinking they just solved a problem.

Rattlesnake Eggs:	5,400 crowns

Think Ill filch something while his back is turned…

RAT TRAP CONTAINERS

Have several of these around, and those freeloading friends and pesky thieves will rue the day they tried to swipe something from you!Thats because RAT TRAP CONTAINERS are triggered by the searching fingers of these chumps.The snap that follows alerts you to the merriment as the crushing force of the steel disables the digits for days, maybe even severs several!Plenty of harm guaranteed, and a finger or two lost isnt uncommon.

Rat Trap Containers: Specify style: Box, Jar, Pouch, Purse

Any style you choose only…	7,889 crowns

Nobody follows you unnoticed!

REARVIEW HELMET VISOR

Replace your current protection with this real one.Our special REARVIEW HELMET VISOR has built-in mirrors that let you secretly watch whats going on behind you.You can even use to see in all directions at the same time!

Rearview Helmet Visor:	7,000 crowns

Nowhere to hide…

RED-HANDED TREASURE PROTECTOR

With this magical spray mist covering your valuables, the sneak thief or practicing purloiner hasnt a chance.Thats because upon glomming onto any of the protected objects, the enchantment goes to work instantly.First the fingers turn a glowing pink, then hands and arms, while the color darkens to a radiant scarlet as the RED-HANDED TREASURE PROTECTOR takes full effect.This lasts for a full hour too!Otherwise harmless, the brightness of the effulgence shines through normal fabrics to make it just about impossible to hide.Protection covers one square yard of surface area; items must be in this space when mist is applied.A must for just about anyone not a pauper.

Red-Handed Treasure Protector:	2,455 crowns

Now this looks like something tasty…

RED-HOT RATIONS

Nobody will mooch chow from you after getting a mouthful of one of these.The sausage is loaded with peppers to hot they virtually melt your mouth.No question that without something to neutralize the acid, the sucker will suffer as had been hit by a left jab and a right hook, square in the kisser.For a real laugh, though, slip one of our RED-HOT RATIONS to an unsuspecting animal, watch it go crazy, bite and savage whomever is closesta real scream!

Red-Hot Rations: (3 pound sausage)	147 crowns

Im an expert tracker, and the rogue has gone that way!

REVERSE FOOTPRINT BOOTS

Thats what you think, sucker!With this special footwear from Weyland Smith & Company the tables are turned.Better still, you can move at a pace 10% faster than your normal one when wearing these kicks!Our magical REVERSE FOOTPRINT BOOTS are comfortable, wear great, look normal, you move faster too, but all traces of your passage while wearing em point the way you came from, not where you are going.Fool your friends, confound your enemies!

Reverse Footprint Boots:

Mens/Womens low, soft-soled	5,725 crowns / 5,650 crowns

Mens/Womens high soft-soled	6,725 crowns / 6,650 crowns

Mens/Womens low hard-soled	5,825 crowns / 5,750 crowns

Mens/Womens high hard-soled	6,825 crowns / 6,750 crowns

Now this activation will heal that wound, my son…

REVERSE EFFECT CHARM

Just suppose that instead of repairing an injury, the magic works to pile more on.A real howl, right?That or just about any other Power can be twisted to come out the opposite, or wrong in any event, if the sucker activating it is wearing the REVERSE EFFECT CHARM you have fobbed off on him.Smirks will break into the broadest of grins, and guffaws likely follow when the tricky little pin does its work.Very funny when slipped to a diviner, great for mages too.We supply the means, you get the mark to wear it…

Reverse Effect Charm:	4,865 crowns

Nobody is around, so clang that thing good and loud!

RING BELL FOR SERVICE GAG

That a hoot!This little steel bell packs a triple whammy, and when the sucker so much as taps the button all are unleashed.The bell is as loud as a great bronze one, guaranteed to deafen and stun all within a 15-foot radius.The button is enchanted to deliver a ball of lightning that descends from above so as to take the dupe by surprise.Best of all, you attune the RING BELL FOR SERVICE GAG to whatever one sort of monster you want summoned when all that happens!Seems fitting for those impatient types who demand instant attention, right?Right!Also comes in a 12-second delay model that has no immediate sound, elicits up to four later clangs and ball-lightning materializations too, but only one monster summoned (sorry, even out wizards have their limits).You can set em up with this little novelty for only…

Ring Bell for Service Gag:			67,999 crowns

Ring Bell for Service Gag with 12-second Delay:	179,665 crowns

This one is a barrel of laughs!

RUBBER DUNGEON DOOR

It looks like its solid wood made doubly strong with iron bindings and rivets too.What a howl when some stooge charges this door, though.Its really very tough rubber, and when its impacted by a charging person intent on forcing it open, the resilient surface sends the sucker flying backwards.Even close inspection is 90% unlikely to reveal this portals actual composition.Imagine, your RUBBER DUNGEON DOOR delivering amazing damage to the fool ramming it with a shoulder who is sent flying backwards with more force than  put into the effort!The splat when the wall of the corridor opposite it will be resounding! Works great when struck by axes and the like too, as the material resists cutting, causes instant rebounding of the weapon striking it.

Rubber Dungeon Door (fits up to a 5 x 10 frame):	5,865 crowns

A sure-fire return of greetings….

RUBBER OIL FLASK

Although one of these joke containers looks and feels like normal, each one is made to rebound upon striking a target. What a hoot when the fiery missile comes flying back at the one who threw it!Of course we have made this tricky flask so that its resiliency ends on the return flight, so that when the RUBBER OIL FLASK comes back it will shatter and spread its flaming contents on chump who tossed it thinking to burn another. (You need to supply the coal oil and rag stopper, but the laughs thereafter are effort.)

Rubber Oil Flask (half-dozen, each  capacity):	225 crowns

Have a chair…

SANDMAN CUSHION

Place this little pillow anywhere.Beneath another cushion if the mark is alert.When  down, the SANDMAN CUSHION emits a petard-like sound of one passing gas.What a laugh, right?Wrong!The real hilarity comes when the sucker sniffs, for the cushion you placed contains a powerful localized knockout gas thatll put to sleep for hours.

Sandman Cushion:	16,950 crowns

If silence is golden in back-stabbing, then heres the brass!

SCREAMING DAGGER

Plant this little number in the sheath of an unsuspecting footpad, assassin, or like felon and spoil day.Thats because when it is drawn and about to be plunged home, the SCREAMING DAGGER lets out sufficient noise to slot the wielder even as it warns the prospective victim of the attack!Best of all, the dweomer of this blade makes it look just like the weapon you have substituted it for, so the dolt you are duping wont know the difference until too late.A scream in more than one way.

Screaming Dagger:	5,250 crowns

Become the toughest guy in your village!

SECRETS OF UNARMED COMBAT

Splat!Take that, you bully!Thats you when you have finished reading and putting into use all the martial arts secrets youll discover in our great SECRETS OF UNARMED COMBAT manual.No need to feel fear, because youll be the meanest guy in that deadly place  passing through! When you reach the end youll be a deadly hand-to-hand combat expert.Guaranteed to give you the ability to perform as advertised.Reading time only 30 days.

Practice required, those already able to use martial arts, including militant monks, guaranteed only a maximum of 10% addition to their skill.

Secrets of Unarmed Combat tome:		37,950 crowns

What a great outfit!

SEE-THROUGH GARMENTS

A full wardrobe of this clothing is a must for the prankster of giving nature.Once donned, all is revealed, only the wearer or wearers sees them as opaque thanks to the special enchantments expertly lain upon them.SEE-THROUGH GARMENTS are fun anytime, a riot at fetes and special ceremonies.

See-Through Garments:

Mens/Womens common outfit	325 crowns / 350 crowns

Mens/Womens ecclesiastical outfit	850 crowns / 950 crowns

Mens/Womens guards outfit	600 crowns / 620 crowns

Mens/Womens hunting outfit	525 crowns / 575 crowns

Mens/Womens magical outfit	980 crowns / 935 crowns

Mens/Womens prosperous outfit	1,990 crowns / 2,144 crowns

But it was the dukes seal on it, I swear!

SELF-ALTERING OFFICIAL SEAL

Fun galore!You can duplicate any wax or similar seal with this neat trick.We supply you with a pack of four wafers, and you simply name the device to be shown, the substance, and the enchanted SELF-ALTERING OFFICIAL SEAL does the rest.Supplied in a pack of four, each lasts for up to one day before changing into some waggish depictiona jeering face, a buffoon with tongue sticking out, an exposed fundament, many others possible, all jolly.You set the time under 24 hours if desired.

Self-Altering Official Seal:	6,549 crowns

This is perfect for carrying all my weapons!

SELF-UNCLASPING BELT

The best of practical joking wizards worked a long time to develop this, our exclusive girdle thats a cinch to bring howls from all concerned.Youll be howling with laughter, of course, as the rube warbles a different tune.The SELF-UNCLASPING BELT lets go just as the wearer is about to do something dangerousfight, leap, climb, you name it.What a riot!Its energy is masked, and because it looks to fine and sturdy, has pockets and pouches to attract the sucker, this is a dandy device indeed.

Self-Unclasping Belt: While they last…	5,000 crowns

Wheres the can opener?

SHRINKING ARMOR

Every warrior hankers after good armor, and wont your brawny pal be pleased when you present with this shiny suit of plate!You may wish to warn them not to get it wet, because once water soaked, thanks to Adept Wizard-designer Nojcref, SHRINKING ARMOR gets smaller and smaller, tighter and tighter.Wont the rest of your party laugh when your mark is squeezed blue in the face!Eventually armor straps and buckles will break but not before the wearer has been as badly bruised as a mouse struck by a mace.

Shrinking Armor:				22,980 crowns

No more big head for you, smarty!

SHRUNKEN HEAD TRICK

Just bide your time and get your revenge on the swell-headed jerk who has been harassing you.With the SHRUNKEN HEAD TRICK in hand, all you need to do is get  to put on the laurels, and then….zap!The victims cranium gets tiny, looks like an authentic shrunken head done by a Jivaro warrior!The mark will even have a creepy shriveled face and long black hair.What a laugh.(Reversible only by potent activations, so bound to cause hilarity for a long time.)

Shrunken Head Trick: Special-subject to price increase…	35,000 crowns

There goes the view…

SINKING SPIRE TRICK

No practical jokers castle is complete without one of these, a sturdy stone turret or spire that stands 60 feet tall, complete with winding internal staircase and crenellated battlement at the top. The fun begins when the marks reach the top, for as they stand upon its roof, the structure withdraws into the ground, leaving them in an oubliette that is 90 feet deep. Thats the thigh-slapping conclusion of employment of a SINKING SPIRE TRICK on foe or former friend. As this construction is re-usable, full instructions come with the miniature spire, so you can place it, enlarge the structure, call it back up from the depths of its magical shaft. Others trapped in the oubliette will need magical transference to escape. A device well worth the major investment!

Sinking Spire Trick:	97,995 crowns

What a way to get rich!

SILVER TO GOLD TRICK

When the mark agrees, you take stack of 20 silver coins, cover them with the enchanted chalice and say Abracadabra!The silver has been turned to gold!The sucker leaves happy, but in an hour ll have a score of lead slugs, and youll be richer.Dont use the SILVER TO GOLD TRICK where the gold can be spent immediately, or else the magic making the slugs look golden will dissipate in mere minutes.This great device and be used for years, and it is guaranteed!

Silver to Gold Trick:	3,800 crowns

Put your shoulder to that door, and let us see what lies beyond.

SLAMMING DOOR

This portal slams the would-be opener, not waiting to be slammed itself. When a rube attempts to force it open, the spell cast upon the heavy oaken planks and forged iron hardware of the SLAMMING DOOR go into action, flying back in response to blow or like force, pinning the one attempting its opening between it and the wall, delivering sufficient damage to fell a warhorse. The kit will fit any doorway of up to 10 height by 5 width, and the frame, hardware, and wood are enchanted so as to be impervious to normal harm, including edged weapons.

Slamming Door:	9,149 crowns

Looks like those steps are wet, so be careful…

SLIPPERY SLIME

Wet is right!When you apply this special novelty liquid to an area of up to 1600 square feet, the surface becomes so slippery that its guaranteed to be 90% unlikely any mark will be able to keep his feet underneath him.What a laugh riot seeing the scrambling and spills!The SLIPPERY SLIME is fun anywhere, really great when applies to stairs in combination with our Artful Adhesive at the bottom.Just imagining the tangled pile glued fast at the bottom of the stairway is enough to bring guffaws, howls or merriment when actually viewed!Each order comes in a one-pint flask.Remains slippery for from 3-5 , then dries and turns to a dust-like powder.

Slippery Slime:	4,875 crowns

Who says Im a dolt?See, I take…

SMART PILLS!

There is one born every minute, and you can be sure to rope em in with this novelty.Think of a tin of 24 of what the rabbit left behind, each pellet laced with a magical burst that makes the consumer think something potent is occurring, and you have our special SMART PILLS!If the one managing to down one believes whatever line youve handed em, then the pill seems to convey that for up to a full minute of timeafter that the victim becomes smart, though, so watch out.Always a lot of laughs at parties.

Smart Pills!Tin of 24, only:	995 crowns

Lets see whats in this bottle…

SMOKE-GENERATING ELIXIR FLASK

This is great for a gag or a fast escape.The one-pint flask looks just like a container used for some Extraordinary substance of liquid sort.It is, but with a difference.Your SMOKE-GENERATING ELIXIR FLASK will release 8,000 cubic yards of blinding smoke in a single second!Only you will know to hit the deck, worm along the floor where the toxic vapors dont reach, so youll be away quickly, while the rubes move around in the cloud at half their normal rate.Smoke cloud lasts one minute or so, then vanishes.

Smoke-Generating Elixir Flask:	2,898 crowns

Lets all drink a toast!

SNAKE-IN-STEIN

If your mark has the mug you slipped to in hand when someone calls for a toast, youll soon be roaring with mirth.Thats because our SNAKE-IN-STEIN is enchanted to pour out an irate asp at the moment it is tipped to quaff.Sure to score a bite, this little snake will have enough poison in it to fell an ox.

Snake-in-Stein:	11,830 crowns

You buy that stuff from a snake oil salesman?What a dope!

SNAKE OIL

Someone is a dolt all right, but it isnt you…not when you have our specially ensorcelled bottle of SNAKE OIL handy.Just rub a little on your skin and you change instantly into the ophidian of your desireanything from a 30-foot long anaconda to a little coral snake of only a couple of feet length.Transformation is complete, lasts for up to one full hour too.Easy to use, six-application bottle, NOW ON SALE!

Snake Oil:	16,750 crowns

I think I shall relax on the throne…

SNAPPING GARDEROBE SEAT

Install this seemingly harmless seat and lid in a privy, then be prepared for endless hours of enjoyment and laughter.If you say the magic word, the SNAPPING GARDEROBE SEAT closes on the victims posterior just like a bear would bite!What a scream in all ways.

Snapping Garderobe Seat:	36,269 crowns

That snuff is potent!

SNEEZING POWDER

Plant this in a salt cellar, a nosegay, of blow it from something to smack the schnozola of the sucker.Stand back!The Aaah-choooos!!! that follow in rapid succession will make the poor dupe helpless for a dozen seconds.Thats because our SNEEZING POWDER makes the eyes water too, so theres no chance of seeing correctly even between sneezes.Comes in a box sufficient for six applications

Sneezing Powder:	12,075 crowns

Time to wash up for the fete!

SOAP FOR DOPES

This cake of soap looks innocent, has a pleasant odor, and lathers nicely.The really funny part comes an hour later.Thats because not only does SOAP FOR DOPES leave a film that becomes filth and grime then, but the poor chump is suddenly washed in lather of sweat and stink as if hadnt bathed in a year.Just what the doctor ordered for bringing a rival into disrepute in the royal court!

Soap for Dopes:	2,350 crowns

Im parched. Good thing theres plenty to drink in this wineskin!

SOUR WATER/WINESKIN

No doubt the sucker will soon be wishing hadnt quaffed off a swig from the special container you slipped . Water becomes foul and brackish, wine becomes so nasty as to make the imbiber pucker up as if a mouthful of alum. Thats what makes the SOUR WATER/WINESKIN such an hilarious item for the true prankster. No matter what the dupe fills it with, what comes out is bound to make him cough and sputter, with a face thats got to be seen to be appreciated!

Sour Water/Wineskin:	350 crowns

Torch those strands, and…

SPECIAL SPIDER WEB WAND

Its a miracle of heka development that enables us to bring you a this nifty little wand that shoots forth thick strands of silken webs that look just like a giant spider sun them. Whats really funny, though, is to watch the rubes who think theyll be able to burn em away! Our SPECIAL SPIDER WEBS actually grow with exposure to flame, double in size growing towards the fire source, while becoming twice as strong and sticky as they were before being treated to heat. Each wand contains 3 charges, enough to cover up to a 10 x 10 x 20 cubic area before doubling in extent.

Special Spider Web Wand:	31,890 crowns

Somebody dropped a gold piece!

SPIKED SPECIE

Have your hammer handy, drive the golden spike into a piece of solid hardwood, and watch the fun!The head is an exact replica of a large gold coinbut it cant be picked up of course.Better still, the SPIKED SPECIE has an enchanted charge in its base, so that if pulled extra hard, the rube gets shocked with sufficient magical electricity to set him on rump.Perfect for the moocher who is always bothering you, or for a public gag.

Spiked Specie:	1,350 crowns

Its the invisible man!

SPOOK BOOTS

When you set this pair of clod-hoppers in motion, there will be fun aplenty.Thats because our special SPOOK BOOTS move by themselves, making plenty of noise as the alternately walk, run, creep with feigned stealth, and so forth.Once set in motion, they will keep going for a whole hour of time.Best of all, whenever stopped for any reason, they come back to their home box.

Spook Boots (with box):	2,910 crowns

Perhaps we can arrange something, My Dear…

SPURIOUS MORTGAGE DOCUMENT

Little Nell or whoever is your mark will shrink in despair when you produce one of these documents.It is a deed to their property with a huge lean against it.You fill in the description and amount, then present the SPURIOUS MORTGAGE DOCUMENT.In an instant the rube is in your power.So well done as to fool not only yokels but even the typical sheriff or reeve.More than a laugh, this is a profit center!

Spurious Mortgage Document:	4,800 crowns

This is direct from the suzerain, so better hop to it!

SPURIOUS WRITS, BILLS, WARRANTS & PROCLAMATIONS

What a great gag!Present the local sheriff with a writ for the arrest of someone totally innocentan enemy, for instance.Deliver a Bill of Attainder to the local official naming priest or guild master as criminal.Show up anywhere with an arrest Warrant, watch the confusion and fear.Deliver some self-serving Proclamation to be read by the local Town Drier.Yes, whatever the need, our pack of eight (two each) SPURIOUS WRITS, BILLS, WARRANTS & PROCLAMATIONS will have you and your cronies in stitchesand with the upper hand too!

Spurious Writs, Bills, Warrants & Proclamations: Sale priced at…	14,900 crowns

Just what the gypsy ordered…

SQUIRTING CRYSTAL BALL

You use it once, and a scene appears in the sphere.Indeed, you are empowered to divine a question, see the answer.Then you offer it to the sucker.As soon as the mark peers into the SQUIRTING CRYSTAL BALL, fsssstt!A jet of inky water (or something harmful if you care to use it) spurts up, blinding the victim, and ruining whatever clothing he has on.It takes a full minute for vision to returnplenty of time for you to get away, even though mirth might slow your normal pace.

Squirting Crystal Ball:	12,779 crowns

Look at that diamond!

SQUIRTING RING

Whether you set the mark up for an eyeful, or some bozo thinks to take it from you, our dweomered diamond crystal is sure to perform.When you twitch your finger the right way, the SQUIRTING RING delivers a stream of fuming nitric acid that is likely to blind the unsuspecting, and sure to eat away as any potent acid does.Youll laugh as they run for water to ease the pain!Sorry, but each one is good for a single shot only.

Squirting Ring:	68,000 crowns

What can this flask contain, I wonder…

STINK BEAKER

If a nosy rube so much as cracks the stopper on this little number, high times are instantly at hand.The STINK BEAKER performs as a super-smelly polecat would.All within a 10-foot radius are now perfumed with a stench that lasts for weeks.Clothing must be burned, as itll never smell right!All the rest must be soaked and scrubbed many times to get rid of the awful odor.Best of all, the victims are at half normal for everything they do for as long as they are in the area, for a dozen seconds time after they escape the main stink.

Stink Beaker:	24,889 crowns

Let me try this one on…

STRAIGHT-JACKET GARMENT

Theres no stopping the merriment when a lout falls for this one!As soon as the mark has placed the STRAIGHT-JACKET GARMENT firmly upon his shoulders, swish!It enwraps, buckles its heretofore hidden straps, and your pigeon is in the bag.Not even a Physique of 100 can break out of this little number.Straining, rolling around, contortions too are grist for the old laugh mill.Caution!Legs are not confined even in longer-length garment styles.

Straight-Jacket Garment:

Mens or Womens plain cape		11,115 crowns

Mens or Womens fancy fur-trimmed cape	12,315 crowns

Mens or Womens plain cloak		11,277 crowns

Mens or Womens fancy fur-trimmed cloak	12,477 crowns

Mens or Womens plain robe		11,390 crowns

Mens or Womens fancy fur-trimmed robe	12,800 crowns

Refreshing honesty...

STRAIGHT-TALKING SPRAY

No diplomat or emissary wants the embarrassment of halitosis disrupting negotiations.Offer them a squirt of your guaranteed breath freshener.Oh!Wont their breath smell sweet...though what they have to say might stink!Thanks to Adept Wizard-designer Nojcref, STRAIGHT-TALKING SPRAY so enchants its user that they can speak only the truth and always say what is on their mind.Great for trials where the culprit is supposed to get off free!Bottle of four squirt sprays…

Straight-Talking Spray:	34,998 crowns	 	 

Disgusting, but what harm is a booger?

STRETCHY SNOT TRICK

When youve packed your old schnozola with ou special powder, youll sure have a laugh on those that suppose you are just picking your nose.With a snootful of this special stuff, you can pull the STRETCHY SNOT TRICK, draw out a strand thats as touch as the phlegm of any slimedrake.Better still, its elastic, so you can flick it out to a 12-foot length just like a whip, and it sticks!Draw back some object, or the lout who didnt cop wise to the gag, and let the real fun commence.A must for pranksters and escape artists alike!

Stretchy Snot Trick:	1,988 crowns

Now theres a poniard with real tone to it!

STYLISH SNAPPY SHEATH/SCABBARD

This beautiful and ornately decorate weapons holder has been crafted by the wily hands of the enslaved goblin jester, Grimaldi, renowned for his unique comedic style. It comes with either a trick dagger or a like sword. When the finely engraved hilt is pulled free of sheath or scabbard, a cleverly concealed, hand-sized spring trap snaps closed upon the finders of the unsuspecting dupe; thats what makes the STYLISH SNAPPY SHEATH/SCABBARD such a laugh riot! The force of the traps closing disables the suckers hand for a full day, so call him Lefty. Meantime, the trap must be freed from the useless hand holding an equally useless weapon. Comes in two weapon forms as noted:

Stylish Snappy Sheath (with dagger):	3,188 crowns

Stylish Snappy Scabbard (with sword):	10,888 crowns

Easy pickings…

SUCKER PURSE

Just toss the little suede bag down anywhere.It automatically opens to allow a gold coin to roll out, jewels inside to glitter in rainbow array.Try to be around for the fun, though.The first rube grabbing it sees a strip of parchment protrude:Sorry, sucker.Stung again!Thats when the scorpion inside the purse lets have it.What a howl!!!

Sucker Purse: (all valuables contained are fake)	16,430 crowns

Hes trapped down in that mineshaft.

SUPERNATURAL SPIDER SPINNERET

This little number is rare, is taken directly from a huge and deadly spider just so you can have some fun!Weve fixed it up so you can strap the spinneret to your arm, shoot out a steel-strong web-line with a flick of the wrist.The SUPERNATURAL SPIDER SPINNERET sends it up to 50-feet distance where it will adhere to and rough surface.Then all you need to do is trigger the reel-in button, and off you go.Be sure to have a place to hold on, though, as the release cuts the line at one foot from the adhering point each time it is used.Complete rig contains a full 300 feet of web-line with a test strength of over 500 pounds.Get yours now! 

Supernatural Spider Spinneret:	23,199 crowns

Boy, am I thirsty!

SWEET TO SALT WATER GAG

Slip one of these little pills into canteen or water-skin and watch the fun.Not only will pure water become too bitter and salty to drink, but ale or wine will be absolutely horrid!Yuks aplenty are in store for you with the SWEET TO SALT WATER GAG handy.Each package contains six sure-fire pills bound to make whatever saps you select rue the day they crossed you!

Sweet To Salt Water Gag:	600 crowns

Never let them know how much coin you carrymight cause trouble.

TATTLETALE COIN & PURSE

Think of the red face of the rube when purse calls out so all can hear how much is inside.What a hoot!Likewise, consider the miser whose cache of money begins shouting out where it is hidden.Thats the fun of planting the TATTLETALE COIN & PURSE on the well-deserving chumps.No more secrets about where the old horde of cash lies, or the fatness of a purse.Once planted, all you need do is be within 30 feet, demand a reckoning and coin, purse, or both sing out.

Tattletale Coin & Purse:	1,968 crowns

Who will know I slipped this to the king…

TATTLING POISON

All you need to do is get this into the hands of an assassin or would-be poisoner and sit back to watch the fun!Thats because our secret ingredients in the absolutely harmless TATTLING POISON package foam, smoke, and make the object they are dissolved in, or cover, turn a bright shade of nauseous blue.Included in the package is a capsule of real poison that will drop a test subjectyour neighbors dog, perhapsin an hours time after it is consumed.This really sets the mark up.

Secret Poison:	3,995 crowns

The best swags in this chest, Ill wager!

TRAPPED TRUNK TRICK

Easy to place hands in the holds to move it, but almost impossible to free them without loss!With two or more rubes caught, its more fun than a barrel of monkeys.Smashing the enchanted TRAPPED TRUNK TRICK automatically damages all members stuck within it too.Large and exceptionally heavy iron chest comes with eight inviting handholds, a super-strength lock, holds one cubic yard of whatever you want to load in.

Trapped Trunk Trick:	49,400 crowns

Something only you know.

TRICK COMB

To everyone else it is nothing but an ordinary comb for head and beard.When you speak the magic word, though, our special TRICK COMB turns into a razor-sharp stiletto with a wicked six-inch blade.If presses against your targets flesh, the blade penetrates for maximum harm too!

Trick Comb:	46,871 crowns

Lets flip a coin to see…

TRICKY NICKEL

What seems to anyone else a normal silver piece is really a special coin composed of nickel and xagium.Weve enchanted the TRICKY NICKEL so that no matter how you flip it, it always comes up on the side you secretly commandeither heas or tails as you call it.Great for taking suckers to the cleaners, avoiding having to do something undesired.Comes with your own secret command word.

Tricky Nickel:	4,290 crowns

Stay in touch with a friend secretly.

TWO-WAY COMMUNICATOR

This pair of ordinary-looking bracelets, inexpensive nickel silver each set with hematite square, are what you must have!When you and a friend wear one, you can whisper back and forth to each other and be heard.The enchanted TWO-WAY COMMUNICATOR works for up to five miles in the open, 500 feet underground.What a great way to keep in touch, and no user fees to pay!Works for a full month of normal use before new magical charge is needed.

Two-Way Communicator: (batteries not included)	5,799 crowns

Two-Way Communicator Magical Batteries, pair:	998 crowns

That costume is really fitting…

TURKEY SUIT

Youll be the life of the party in out hilarious turkey costume.Its great for fancy costume balls or ordinary masques too.What the others wont suspect is that the dweomers imbued into our TURKEY SUIT are special.At will you can deliver a peck like a blow from a military pick or emit a loud, gobble-gobble-gobble sound that will stun for a full three seconds all those within six feet.Best of all, this costume enables you to flap your arms and fly, a low trajectory airborne exercise that climbs to up to 40 foot height over a flight path of up to 120 feet length.

Turkey Suit:	29,199 crowns

Check out those phony fangs…

UGLY TEETH

These dentures are clearly faes, stick out in a snaggle of stained fangs and are only frightening at first glance.The real fun comes when you bite the unsuspecting sucker thats laughing at you for such a silly ruse.Made of enchanted materials, the UGLY TEETH deliver a bite thats 90% likely to succeed, cause harm as if you were striking with a mighty battle axe too!Although usable but once, this little number is just about certain to be a hit.

Ugly Teeth:	9,000 crowns

Maybe this will dissolve that glue…

UNIVERSAL SOLVENT SOLUTION

We arent kidding you now, chum.This is the real stuff, so be prepared!Master  created this personally.What you get is a liquid is better than any acid, one that will eat one million times its weight in anything when it is activated.Steel? No problem.The same with adamantine, crystal, diamond, glass, gold…whatever!When the four ingredient vials of our UNIVERSAL SOLVENT SOLUTION are properly mixed, the resulting liquid dissolves the container instantly, spreads and falls as would normal water, dissolving all it contacts as it does so.Each order comes with four 10-dram materia vials and complete instructions for mixing.Look out for that hole!

Universal Solvent Solution:	500,000 crowns

Nobody will undo that knot!

UNTYING TRICK ROPE

What a laugh when the securely tied rope undoes itself!Great when the rube is climbing up or down, even better if the bozo has used the UNTYING TRICK ROPE to secure you for some reason.Now matter how is looped, braided, tangled, or knotted, this exceptionally strong and resilient rope comes undone whenever you utter a command word.Minimum length is five feet, maximum 100 feet.

Untying Trick Rope:	450 crowns per five feet

That disgruntled wizard has a rook on his shoulder…

UNWANTED FAMILIAR

For a laugh riot, and to pay back that uppity mage who is the bane of your existence, we have what might be the greatest joke ever.When you invoke the UNWANTED FAMILIAR the fun has just begun.Your mark will not suspect that the culprit is you, for the magic activates at up to a furlongs distance.All you need it to have the sucker in sight.As you stick the paper bird onto the drawing of a person both vanish, and theres a big raven on the spell-workers shoulder.The bird looks to be in molt, talks and croaks loudly, defecatesfrequently and vigorously, and will not leave.Being a familiar, any attack on it will harm the sucker you have saddled it with, of course, and better still the rook will be unaffected.

Typical words and phrases spoken by the big, black bird include

Look out or hell turn you into a toad!

Nevermore, sucka!

Hows about a little lovin?

My master is unbeatable.

Get outta my way, you dog!

Unwanted Familiar: Price based on persistency:

One hour	499 crowns

Full day	799 crowns

Full week, only	2,488 crowns

Where the heck did he go?

VANISHING CRÈME

Thats what everyone will be saying if you are given a chance to apply this magical lotion.One jar of our VANISHING CRÈME will, when smoothed onto your cheeks and hands, not only make you invisible but also transport you up to one league distant.Escape from it all, or set up a chump and be rid of instantly.Comes with complete instructions on how to establish a transportation destination within the radius of effect.

Vanishing Crème:	12,500 crowns

I have the proof here, Inspector!

VANISHING INK

Anybody can provide you with normal vanishing ink, the kind that fades into nothing in an hour.Fun, but think of the raucous time when our specially dweomered VANISHING INK changes, leaving something insulting or incriminating in its place!Thats right, you specify jape or revealing indiscretion as you wield your quill, and when your writing is gone, a different hand will have written what you wanted.Best of all is the look on the louts face when he sees the unexpected in place of what he thought was there.

Vanishing Ink:	3,100 crowns

Big deal.So smoke comes out of his fingers…

VAPOROUS DIGITS

The smoke emanating from your fingers is guaranteed to give the smart-ass in the audience the vapors!Just point at the victim and a column of writhing smoke billows out to a distance of up to 30 feet, entwines itself around the chump.Using your VAPOROUS DIGITS, youve called up a real live python of huge size and nasty disposition with that smoke.Watch a nice wrestling match, laugh a lot…

Vaporous Digits: Usable one time only…	8,489 crowns

Who said that?!

VENTRILOQUISTIC DEVICE

Fool your friends with this trick, or dismay your enemies.Either way is a laugh riot!All you need to do is hide this little button somewhere, then be within sight and up to 60 feet distance.You whisper, make a soft noise, and the VENTROLIQUISTIC DEVICE button magnifies the sound, makes it sound more or less human, and nobody is there!Excellent for simulating a hidden guard, or making someone seem to suffer from flatulence.

Ventriloquistic Device:	2,088 crowns

This place is like a jungle.

VENUS FLY TRAP

When you plant this little baby be sure and remember its pet name.Watch as it captures and eat flies and spiders, then birds and bats as it gets larger.When fully grown in about six months, your VENUS FLY TRAP is a giant over 12 feet tall, able to engulf man-sized mealsand it will too, if the man in question doesnt know its name!A bite like a huge crocodile, so get several for your place.

Venus Fly Trap:	2,998 crowns

After dinner what better than a great smoke?

VOLCANO CIGAR LOADS

Stuff one of these little wooden slivers into the marks cigar, stand back, and be ready for the great time.When the fire hits them, our dweomered VOLCANO CIGAR LOADS go off with a roar, sending a cone of fire and burning ash to a distance of six feet.Likely to set fire to any combustibles around, the rube will be reeling back, dazed for a dozen seconds time!Each pack has 12 loads.

Volcano Cigar Loads:	199 crowns

Have a really howlin Halloween!

VOODOO MASK

Folks condescendingly admiring your cute costume will have another thin coming when  are wearing one of our unique creations.What a scream when you turn out to actually be the horrible monster they see, not one in a some cheap kids imitation.Thats because the VOODOO MASK transforms you into the creature depicted for the whole of the time you wear it.Thats right, you become the dangerous, vicious creature the mask depicts.All of these great masks are guaranteed for six uses, too.A treat indeed…

Voodoo Mask*: A rare bargain at these prices!!!

Banecreeper	19,750 crowns

Bestial, horned, mature	17,250 crowns

Bonestalker	18,750 crowns

Gibber, mature	16,750 crowns

Golem, Jack-O-Scarecrow	21,500 crowns

Loup Garou	20,750 crowns

Moriant	19,250 crowns

Oni Imp	18,250 crowns

Shadowling	16,250 crowns

Trog Chief	17,500 crowns

Widowblack	18,500 crowns

*Conversion to such monster as is generally in the same statistical range as the one shown is an easy matter for the wizards at our factory.Simply note the conversion type desired, a werewolf rather than a loup garou for instance, and it is done!

Not the evil witch again!

WAND OF DEFLOWERING

With this malicious little baton you can enjoy a perfectly bleak exterior prospect.It ruins gardens and more!Thats right, ruin everyones day by clearing all buds, blooms, petals, flowers and all thats bright and cheerful in flora from park and garden.Each WAND OF DEFLOWERING comes with sufficient energy to clear an area of one square furlong.Also makes the possessor highly attractive to the young female offspring of gardeners, grovers, botanists, horticulturalists, and parkers alike.

Wand of Deflowering:	9,250 crowns

Whos calling the dog?

WHISTLING PLANK

This conjured cut of sturdy hardwood is just the thing for a special laugh.When stepped on, it emits a wolf whistle.The ladies will blush, thieves flee at the sound!Great for stair step or floor plank, can be used virtually anywhere. The WHISTLING PLANK is something not to be missed for many reasons. Note that guard animals correctly trained will respond to the sound emitted.

Whistling Plank:	550 crowns per board foot*

*12 wide, and specify number of feet in length desired.Trimming of size incurs a 10% chance of ruining the energy, so use unmodified boards if possible.(No refunds.)

Mirror, mirror…on the ceiling?!

WISE-CRACKING MAGIC MIRROR

What a howl! The perfect gift for that mage on your list who you cant stand. Give it to your mark, and its fixed on em like a leech forever after. You can even let the bozo youre out to get think hes stealing it from you. No matter what they do, this little number keeps coming back like a bad penny. Only the most potent counter-spells will work to get rid of our WISE-CRACKING MAGIC MIRROR. What does it do? Talks a lot even when not spoken to, shrieks and shows fake cracks when the mark looks into it, makes rude remarks about anyone within 20 feet of it, tells smutty jokes in the presence of those likely to be offended, utters racial slurs loudly, lies continually, and thats just for openers. Seeming destruction means it will pop up in 1-4 , as good as ever, attach itself to a wall or any other suitable surface, and harass the poor sucker for hurting it so cruelly!

Wise-Cracking Magic Mirror	78,188 crowns

Its so quiet you can hear a pin drop.

WS SNEAKERS

Who other than Weyland Smith can offer such footwear?With these little numbers on your feet you can steal up with guaranteed soundlessness to fool your friends or surprise your enemies.Thats because our WS SNEAKERS enable you to walk across any surface, even one covered with dry leaves, as silently as a shadow. One size fits all!Get a pair today

WS Sneakers:	22,999 crowns

Bummer!These dont work at all…

X-RAY SPECS

Heres a nifty little number you can leave laying around. Any rube trying them on can see nothing, will actually be blinded for a full minute!So would you if you didnt know that out X-RAY SPECS work only in total darkness where no light at all is present.Thats because they let you see as if you were in daylight by picking up X-rays and other high-level radiation. Perfect for looting underground vaults.

X-Ray Specs:	25,500 crowns

The handy little pocketknife thats a whole lot more!

XWISS ARMING KNIFE

Small enough to carry in a pocket, easily overlooked by captors too, for its blades appear to be no more than little, toy-like ones!Thats right, you are likely to be able to keep this little beauty this with you even when tossed into a dank dungeon.Each blade magically enlarges to a full-sized toll when you unfold it and say the word.Heres what you get when you own your own XWISS ARMING KNIFE: Standard five-blade model has crowbar, machete, metal file, saw, and shovel.Extra-bladed versions add: 6-inch diameter auger, bec-de-corbin, chain cutters, pick axe, and drill-spear of 8-foot length. 

Xwiss Arming Knife: Specify number of blades desired:

Standard 5-Blade Model	38,950 crowns

6-Blade Xwiss Arming Knife	40,250 crowns

7-Blade Xwiss Arming Knife	42,550 crowns

8-Blade Xwiss Arming Knife	44,800 crowns

9-Blade Xwiss Arming Knife	46,250 crowns

10-Blade Xwiss Arming Knife	50,000 crowns

Carries for miles, deafens all nearby!

YOWEE WHISTLE

This looks like a normal little wooden whistle.What we have done is to energize it was a potent aerial heka, so that when you blow on it, it emits an ear-splitting sound louder that any normal horn or beasts bellow!Be sure to have your ears stoppered when you sent forth a blast on the YOWEE WHISTLE, because it will stun for several seconds time all hearing it that are within a 30-foot radius, and all hearing creatures within twice that distance will be deaf for at least a minute.What a great prank to blow this in school or temple!!!(Each one limited to a single use, as blowing it full-out shatters the whistle.)

Yowee Whistle: While they last	4,189 crowns

Thats a grimoire, or Im an ass!

ZAGIGS ZANY ZOONIMICOM

Right…wrong…well, maybe.Theres no ZZZ of sleep in this mirthfully magical tome for sure.Each of its eight thick pages has been selected with utter randomness, so that whatever rube happens to open it up will be changed in an instant into some member of the animal kingdomamphibian, avian, mammal, the whole spectrum.What a laugh to see some unsuspecting mark crack the cover of ZAGIGS ZANY ZOONIMICOM and turn into a skink or a polecat!Each page in every volume is different, and when its enchantment is dispelled by some victim the blank one remains to give the book heft and the right look.The mark will remain in his or her now form until a counter-measure is applied, all the while as aware of the old switcheroo as  current brain allows.

Zagigs Zany Zoonomicon:	49,488 crowns

When you need a breeze…

ZEPHYR IN A POUCH

Improved model!Whatever the need, from clearing a flatulent fog to pushing back a poisonous cloud, this is the answer.Thanks to our special dweomer, a little pouch on your belt can be a real windbag that lets out a blast of air moving as fast as a horse runs that sweeps a rods diameter for a full chains length!So order ZEPHYR IN A POUCH now, and you get a recharge kit that allows you to reuse it another time. For a really big wind, the DOUBLE ZEPHYR version gives forth an 80 MPH, one-chain wide, one-furlong length wowzer!

Zephyr in a Pouch: Special, with recharge kit, only…	999 crowns

Double Zephyr in a Pouch: with recharge kit, only…	1,999 crowns

That tube with lensesa spyglass no doubt!

ZOWIE MIN-MAX MAGNIFIER

It looks like a telescope, or perhaps a kaleidoscope, and its 75 power lenses work wonders either way.By looking through the correct end of the ZOWIE MIN-MAX MAGNIFIER, you can turn any living thing in view, no further than 100 feet distant, and not larger the two inches in any of its dimensions into a colossal size, 75 times larger than it was!Hand it to someone you dont like, and the dupe will look through the wrong end, end up 1/75th  normal size.What a joke on .Only you know which end is which, and size reduction or increase persists for only one hour time.Device works only once per day as dweomer collector requires 24 hours to recharge.

Zowie Min-Max Magnifier:	21,998 crowns

You must be a thespian…

101 DISGUISES KIT

We provide just about everything you can think of in this wicker chest.There are wigs, false facial hair, makeup, and light but seemingly substantial and correct costumespriestly gowns, scholars robes, soldiers uniforms, etc.The 101 DISGUISES KIT comes with inserts to make you taller, various props too, you can be just about anything you like from an ink-stained accountant to a manure spotted zoo-keeper.

101 Disguises Kit (in large hamper):	10,001 crowns

You must be a wizard…

25 MAGIC TRICKS SET

You get all these secret magicians spells to perform 25 magic tricks!Includes one-time-only command words to vanish, appear suddenly, walk through walls up to 10-feet thick, sink through floors up to 10-feet thick, defy gravity, open six locks, see through solid objects, separate chain links, join them, make a small object appear, another one vanish, produce a gallon of water or wine, make a banquet for six appear, command a rope for a minute, send a tongue of flame from your fingertip, and 10 more we select at random just for you more. Our 25 MAGIC TRICKS SET is a complete wizards library in a small case at an unbeatable price!

25 Magic Tricks Set (in small portmanteau):	200,000 crowns

Wow!I cant believe I got this great item!!!

SURPRISE PACKAGE FROM OUR GRAB BAG

Here it is, kids, the chance of a lifetime!Who knows what box well pull out for you?Sure, it might be an ashtray that automatically extinguishes all burning tobacco within 10 feet of it.It might be a gag jupon that makes it appear youre a naked man or woman.There are slide wolf whistles (that really call wolves too), false insect eyes you can wear to look buggy at parties, all sorts of fun things!We dump a lot of the old, discontinued items this way, right…On the other hand we just might make a mistake*, send you a SURPRISE PACKAGE FROM OUR GRAB BAG with a wand of 100 charges that enables you to toss around 1-4 different spells, a pair of Witchcrafters Specs that give you the power to eyebite (cast a spell with a look), or even a Gift Certificate that lets you order something of your choice from the catalog at a discount of from 30% to a whopping 80% off!Youre lucky, so go ahead and order one today!!! 

Surprise Package from our Grab Bag 	3,950 crowns

*Current error rate in sending special items other than the usual grab bag junk is one in 20. (This notice posted perforce by demand of the Association of Adepts.)

Typical Grab Bag items include, but are not limited to, the following: Assortment of Exploding Sports Game Balls (croquet, golf, handball, tennis, etc.), Bats in the Belfry Gag (12 real bats fly out from under a funny-looking hat on the head), Mashers Glove (moves and mashes at owners command), Mystic Murky Globe (with random answers appearing in a window therein), Pismire Parade Band (100-piece and marching band, with instruments included), Phony Banquet Table (imitation food & drink, poison not included), Running & Clucking Plucked Rubber Chicken, Wind-Up Walking Duck (that lays rubber eggs); plus any of the advertised items above that are slow-selling and of considerably under the cost amount paid for a grab bag selection.

WEYLAND SMITHS TASTY TREATS SECTION

By popular demand we instituted special foods and drinks for the discerning wag several decades ago, local universe time.Hereafter are those that are available through catalog purchase.Stop into your relatively local WS Mirthful Magic Shop to see the complete array of these wondrous and exceptionally amusing provisions!

COMESTIBLES FOR THE GOURMET JESTER

Perfect for a sticky situation…

BLACKSTRAP MOLASSES DECOCTION

When this one-pint jar is opened, theres a surprise in store for most everyone! The jar sticks automatically to the openers hand.Whatever is held, or next grabbed, in the other mitt also sticks fast because of the BLACKSTRAP MOLASSES DECOCTIONS magical adhesive power.If its a whip, or whip-like weapon, though, the partys on, because the decoctions power doubles the wielders accuracy, the harm inflicted by the weapon. Adhesion and other effects last for one full minute before ending, uses only one ounce of the goo!

Blackstrap Molasses: One pint bottle	450 crowns

Lets spice things up a bit…

CHILLY POWDER

What a laugh when the stooge discovers the spice really cools things down! A single ounce sprinkled around covers a 10-foot radius, lowers the ambient temperature of the surface it is upon by 50 degrees F. Cold food is a given.The CHILLY POWDER lasts for an hour after application, resisting attempts to warm up the subject it is upon.Where temperatures are cold, this stuff brings a true Arctic blast!

Chilly Powder: 6 oz. tin	800 crowns

More than a culinary delicacy!

FROGS LEGS

When you have this tin handy its sure youll be ready to jump away from danger. Not meant for consumption, our doubly dweomered batrachian hind limbs provide more than a delicious dish full of calories. When opened, your tin of FROGS LEGS instantly enables you and up to five others, if you so choose, to jump and swim as if you were a giant bullfrog. Spring ahead up to 60 with an apex of only 12 feet, or jump as high as 36 while moving forward a like distance. Swim? Sure, you can travel at the rate of 12 a second underwater. Warning, legs remain in frog-form for a full minute of time, do not enable upright posture, and do not increase lung capacity. Re-close tin and unused frogs legs will remain potent for up to one month.

Frogs Legs: 12-leg tin	1,499 crowns

Beans are healthy food, tasty to eat…

HEXICAN JUMPING BEANS

These normal-looking legumes are dweomered for some hilarious fun….at the consumers expense, of course.A single serving of two ounces of cooked beans suffices to keep things jumping for an hours time!Only a minute after swallowing a mess of these beans, the sucker will begin leaping like a grasshopper.Up 20 to 30 feet and outwards to as much as 60 to 90 feet distance, sideways and backwards to half those distances, all quite randomly.HEXICAN JUMPING BEANS are a laugh riot when the uninitiated sucker is targeted. Warning: After about an hour of time, a sucker is able to control jumps, so dont waste these little dandies on the same person.

Hexican Jumping Beans: One pound bag	650 crowns

Speaking of infernos…

HOT SAUCE

Only a real chump will use this stuff on food.A single drop raises the temperature of a cubic foot of material by 150 degrees F. for one full hour.Thats right! Our HOT SAUCE is really heat producing.An ounce melts a cubic yard of ice in only a few seconds its so hot. Great for pranks, keeping warm too, as a drop on a rock can warm a whole hut (1,000 cubic feet of enclosed space). 

Hot Sauce: One pint bottle	1,880 crowns

Havent had any of this since we were at that old pub in…

JUGGED HARE

So whos to blame someone in our labeling department for not being able to spell?Hand this to your mark, and when  the container, zap! The poor sucker is instantly covered in hair, a mound like a haystack.What a thigh-slapper! JUGGED HARE causes the one opening it to sprout tresses, body hair too, to six feet and more in length. Magical strength prevents cutting, and the hirsute condition lasts.Thats right, the strands diminish slowly, retreating in length one inch an hour. Great for mountebanks with freak side shows too.

Jugged Hare: Per jug	449 crowns

Now these are really good beansnot like them other ones.

PINTO BEANS

No leaping about here.When this can is opened, no cooking needed! The dweomer packed in the container is going to astound the unwary for sure.As the lid comes off out comes a whole herd of horses, pinto, of course. If you have a corral or pen, then the PINTO BEANS herd will provide you with a score of wild horses to break and train. Otherwise, just point and shoot, and those 20 animals will stampede right into the suckers you target. 

Pinto Beans: Per can	49,999 crowns

Boo!Hiss!Throw the bum out!!!

RASPBERRY JAM

What a riot when the unsuspecting chump spreads a little of this stuff on bread or roll, then takes a bite.Thats because our dweomered RASPBERRY JAM emits loud raspberries, along with assorted catcalls, insults, and jeers when in contact with a mouth.The sounds are loud enough to be heard a block away, last for a full minute too. Sure to cause plenty of trouble!

Raspberry Jam: Half-pint jar	150 crowns

What do you mean Im wrong?Youre an idiot!

RHUBARB PRESERVES

Another sure-fire attention getter…for the mark you set up, of course.Just set out this spread, and wait until the sucker eats some and the fun begins! Five minutes thereafter, whatever anyone says will be contradicted by the one who has  our RHUBARB PRESERVES. Your mark will argue about everything, be contrary, acerbic, insulting, and completely unpleasant to all speaking within hearing distance, even if to another person.

Rhubarb Preserves: Half-pint jar	249 crowns

This special dish is served with capers.

WS CAPERS

What fun is in store for you when you put some of these tasty little morsels into a dish. Whoever eats ou enchanted WS CAPERS will soon be doing just that, capering! Thats right. The rube will cavort,  and jump about, dance and frolic uncontrollably for a full minute.Although this prancing and gamboling makes the sucker a moving target, any attack from is quite impossible because of antic movements.

WS Capers:	1,899 crowns

A very exciting condiment, dont you think?

WS CATSUP

When you are supplied with this sauce itll be hard for your friends and foes alike to keep up with you. Thats because WS CATSUP works the way it sounds, only they cant catch-up! Why? Because when youve consumed an ounce of the magickal condiment youll be moving at three times your normal speed. Great for winning foot races of any sort, including those involving the constabulary…

WS Catsup: One pint bottle	6,750 crowns

Tired of ordinary sausages? These are guaranteed to be different…

WS HOT DOGS

Be sure to break out these wieners when the party is getting rough. Just heat em up in the fire or on a grill.In only 12 seconds time, your pack of WS HOT DOGS is ready to eatanyone other than you thats within sight! High heat or flame changes these seeming sausages into a pack of ravenous infernal hounds bent on carnage. These nether hounds remain active for one minute, then vanish back to the hells. Not for the squeamish or faint at heart.

WS Hot Dogs: Pack of eight	45,000 crowns

LIQUID REFRESHMENTS FOR THE GOURMET JESTER

This magical measure  you get down to basics.

AL AMOEBOID SIMPLE

Toss of a measure of this viscous stuff, and things life becomes simple. You, or your mark, need only 12 seconds to become a flowing blob of protoplasm. As a single-celled organism, even of your or your marks size, its easy to flow into a crack under a door, for example.  the heka of the potion enables full memory retention, even as in amoeboid form its possible to use potent acid to dissolve most things. Best of all, if you know the deactivation work, just think it, and the process is reversed. Duration of effect otherwise lasts for 10 minutes.

Al Amoeboid Simple: Four draught pint flask	1,499 crowns

For breath as cool as glacial breezes try…

ARCTIC AIR COOLER

When things get hot, and youre bothered, it is time to toss off a swig of this drink.Thats right; dont pass the bottle around, as this i one youll want all to yourself.One pull from the ARCTIC AIR COOLER and you can breathe forth a big cone of sub-zero cold thats 20 feet long, 10 feet in end diameter.The chill is enough to freeze each normal someone in the effect area solid. What a way to give someone the really cold shoulder!

Arctic Air Cooler: Four draught pint flask	74,950 crowns

Quaffing this might well get you stoned.

BASILISK IN A BOTTLE

Whatever you do, dont check your breath after drinking a tup of this stuff!Exhale and turn your head away fast!!!Why? Because our special formula in BASILISK IN A BOTTLE enables you to send forth a petrifying belch of vapors to a range of 10 feet. Any target subject struck by it will be turned to stone in an instant. Rock and roll, baby!

Basilisk in a Bottle: Four draught pint flask	79,995 crowns

If you think a bull is powerful, then see what this will do for you!

BILLY GOAT STRENGTH POTION

You will be strong, smell even stronger, when you knock back a gill of this concoction! Add 10% to 20% to your muscle power, have a head as hard as a rock for butting damage, and all the while make anyone within five feet of you reel with the stenchthats BILLY GOAT STRENGTH POTION all right! Even as your strength increases, your head can deliver butts like those of a great big billy goat, while those around you must avoid breathing in or be weakened by half due to nausea. Draught effect persists for one minute.

Billy Goat Strength Potion: Four draught pint flask	9,699 crowns

Cooling mouthwash this aint…

BLISTERINE MAW WHALLOP

Fuming red nitric acid is mild compared to a shot of this stuff.Figure on some low damage to your mouth when you swig some, but the pain is worth it.With a quick spit-tooie, you can hit a target at up to 15 feet distance, and what a splash the BLISTERINE MAW WHALLOP will make then! The target struck by the acid takes 17-20 points of Harm, only half that if the sucker manages to leap out of the way.

Blisterine Maw Whallop: Four draught pint flask	89,750 crowns

Afraid?Why Im not afraid of anything!

BOTTLED COURAGE PHILTRE

Slip some of this stuff into the punch, and then sit back.All the rubes that have sucked it down will be absolutely fearless, stand and fight unflinchingly until they come back with their shields or on them. BOTTLED COURAGE PHILTRE provides a full hour of foolhardy bravery too, so even long battles wont see your marks fleeing like whipped curs. Dont risk your own skin, risk theirs instead!

Bottled Courage Philtre: Eight draught pint flask	9,899 crowns

When I drink this Ill be able to control those monsters!

BUBBLY SPEECH POTION

It looks and tastes like any potion of control, but a few seconds after being quaffed its essence alters magically. The dweomered liquid produces a stream of great bubbles that issue forth from the imbibers mouth one a second. At the same time the BUBBLY SPEECH POTION englobes any sounds that the sucker tries to utter, so that they are trapped within the ephemeral sphere. Each bubble floats in the air for a few seconds (1-4) then bursts, releasing the sound it contained, but the noise in amplified to a volume as loud as a shout. The effect lasts for a full hour of time for plenty of laughs!

Bubbly Speech Potion: One draught pint flask	99 crowns

No need to ask about this decoction…

DEMON RUM

When youre feeling really devilish, then its time to uncork this bottle and enjoy! A perfect drink for masquerade parties and witches coven meetings too. A minute after past the teeth and over the tongue, youll feel the fire.Thats because DEMON RUM transforms the consumer into a big, ugly demon while keeping all of your own capacities intactthe best of both worlds, so to speak. The effect lasts for up to a full hour, ends you speak the dispelling command that comes with each flask.

Demon Rum: Eight draught pint flask	119,199 crowns

No more lawn mowing, no more weeding the garden, no more garden!

DERKAYS DEFOLIANT DRINK

Theres an orange chemical thats made by watering down this potion, but we have the real thing. Sick of all that foliage? Hate greenery? Want to show up that neighbor with a perfect lawn and fancy gardens? Take a snort of DERKAYS DEFOLIANT DRINK, and exhale. The cloud of vapors youll exhale is 30 feet in its dimension, instantly withers the vegetation within it. The look on the faces of those who love plants is alone worth the price of this decoction!

Derkays Defoliant Drink: Eight draught pint flask	79,995 crowns

No doubt were stretching things with this one.

ELONGATION ELIXIR

Tall guys are called stretch, and a single slug of this potion will triple the height of the one consuming it.  it adds no bulk, so the rube looks pretty funny too, a stick for sure! A great prank, or perfect for peeking in windows, ELONGATION ELIXIR has a solid hour of effect, then the magic fades away, and the subject returns to normal size. (Effect of this elixir is countered immediately by our Flattening Philter below.)

Elongation Elixir: Eight draught pint flask	4,899 crowns

A sure way to lose friends and everyone else too!

ESSENCE DORDURE ELIXIR

It smells bad in the bottle, and it only gets worse thereafter. Hold your nose, take a drink, and then the fun begins. Think of the entertaining time youll have emitting a cloud of poison gas, watching all the air-breathing life turn up its toes when the purple vapors you exhale hit em! ESSENCE DORDURE enables you to produce a cloud thats 30 feet in its dimensions, instantly delivers toxins sufficient to fell a strong man who gets a single whiff of it (d20 +20).

Essence DOrdure Elixir: Four draught pint flask	119,995 crowns

Find out just how low you can go with…

FLATTENING PHILTRE

Laugh? You bet, because when someone drinks a shot of this little number, it looks like an anvil dropped on head and flattened !Virtually legless feet move the mark about in a hilarious duck-waddle motion. The dweomer of our FLATTENING PHILTRE makes the normal mark about a foot tall, twice the usual diameter, of course. This riotous result has a solid hour of effect, then the magic fades away, and the subject returns to normal size. (Effect of this potion is countered immediately by our Elongation Elixir above.)

Flattening Philtre: Four draught pint flask	3,899 crowns

Perhaps by becoming insubstantial I can escape this trap…

GASEOUS FORMULA DRAUGHT

Side-splitting laughs are in store for you when a rube downs this stuff. It isnt one to alter substance, so be sure and hold your nose and wear goggles. The one drinking the potion doesnt even notice it but… GASEOUS FORMULA DRAUGHT works in mere seconds. The result is a cloud of noxious gas that begins in a 10-foot radius, spreads to 60 feet in the following 30 seconds. Those within it are weakened by 50% by the stench, cant see more than five feet, unless they manage to avoid the billowing purplish fumes. A perfect time to make your mark, of course.

Gaseous Formula Draught: Four draught pint flask	49,500 crowns

All of this violence and killing must stop now!

HUMANE CONTROL POTION

Sick and tired of hearing that sort of bleeding-heart mantra? Who isnt? Just slip this special mix into the drink, and theres an end to the matter! The most pacifistic of subjects becomes a rabid butcher with a belt of HUMANE CONTROL POTION in their otherwise gutless body. Theyll be screaming for blood, ready to hack & slash their way to gory glory. No hesitation for the mark whos motivated by this magical measure.Its attack first, ask questions afterwards. Sure to please all the real barbarians in the party, so stock up on this number!

Humane Control Potion: Four draught pint flask	1,188 crowns

Ive never seen so many well-dressed people.

POTION OF POLYESTER

Not for long! When you swill down a couple of fingers of this elixir, theres real fun in store…for you. A single glance at a mark enables you to alter their velvet and furs into cheap, synthetic duds. Thats right, our POTION OF POLYESTER empowers the one who quaffed it to change the garments of as many as six subjects within sight from fancy to funny. Rich to ridiculous. Warning! Dont get caught, as the magickal alteration that occurs is permanent. Works only on natural plant and animal fibers, doesnt affect leather armor.

Potion of Polyester: Four draught pint flask	999 crowns

Whoa! Ive never seen him move so fast...

SPEEDY MOVEMENT POTION

Thats because one minute after slugging down a gulp of this dweomered drink the poor sucker is struck with the urgent need to evacuate bowels, while at the same time empowered with the ability to run as fast as a deer. Your mark had better get going too after taking a swig of SPEEDY MOVEMENT POTION, because will be needing visit the jakes within minute, stay there for 10 more, and then return at speed for a second and third visit within the hour. Uproarious fun for all the viewers.

Speedy Movement Potion: Four draught pint flask	99 crowns

Please allow me to provide the wine.

VIN DU PAYS POTION

Nobody will suspect that youve set them up, but what a laugh! Slip your own bottle into the wine stewards mix, and then have serve it up. Youll never pay another tab, because those who quaff our VIN DU PAYS will be arguing over which of them covers the cost. Be sure and order the most expensive items from the menu, and add all you can onto the reckoning, because its…free!

Vin Du Pays: Case of 12 quart bottles		215 crowns

Liquor this shocking ought to be illegal!

WHITE LIGHTNING

In the hills, the name means strong liquor, but here it means blazing thunderbolt. Swig a bit, and then you can make the suckers dance. Light things up with ou WHITE LIGHTNING. After one good gulp youll be able to send forth a bolt thats 30 feet long thatll zap anything within five feet of its straight path. High voltage instantly delivers plenty of harm to the target (d20 +10), while those beside the sparks path suffer half that damage.

White Lightning: Four draught pint flask		179,995 crowns

So you think that old harridan has a hot tongue, do you?

YE FIREDRAKES SALIVA DECOCTION

This is the perfect drink to settle a heated argument. Whatever you do, refrain from hiccoughing when youve drunk this draught! Chug down a good belt of this, then take a slow, deep breath and then exhale vigorously. The contents of YE FIREDRAKES SALIVA DECOCTION enable you to vomit forth a gout of flames in a cone 30 feet long, 10 feet in diameter at the end, that you can move through 15 degrees of a circle. Immolating enemies is easy, and whatever is inflammable around them will be set alight too. Fire and heat deliver delightful damage (d12 +12, not including incidental combustion harm from burning clothing, draperies, furniture, etc.).

Ye Firefrakes Saliva Decoction: Four draught flask	199,995 crowns

If you love surprises, you cant top this elixir.

ZAGIGS WAH-PITUI! MIX

Cant make up your mind as to which potion is likely to provide the most laughs? Then pick this one for sure-fire fun and surprises! We guarantee from four to six results, each one different, coming after you consume the contents of ZAGIGS WAH-PITUI MIX. Each effect is singular until employed, then persists according to specifications for it. Effects that persist for a period of one minute or more enable the following potion to become active. Any one of these magickal philters might be included in the mingled potion combination:

1.	Arctic Air Cooler

2.	Basilisk in a Bottle

3.	Billy Goat Strength Potion

4.	Blisterine Maw Whallop

5.	Demon Rum

6.	Derkays Defoliant Drink

7.	Elongation Elixir

8.	Essence DOrdure Elixir

9.	Flattening Philtre

10. Gaseous Formula Draught

11. Potion of Polyester

12. White Lightning

13. Ye Firedrakes Saliva Decoction

14. Zagigs Special Zap (not otherwise available), enabling the quaffer to turn a subject in sight and within 20 feet distance into a small amphibian or reptile, the change in form being permanent until magickally countered.

Zagigs Wah-Pitui! Mix: One pint flask		299,595 crowns

POTION MINIATURES CLOSEOUT!

The following two-ounce potion vials are guaranteed to be efficacious. They are on special closeout sale because of demandthey proved to be less amusing that expected.Order now, as quantities are limited.

Youll really dig this one!

BUSHMOLES

Not only a tasty 100 proof whiskey, but a dweomered drink as well. One minute after consuming a miniature of BUSHMOLES, youll be able to dig and delve, burrow like a mole through the soil at a rate of six feet through normal loam. Effect lasts for two minutes; plenty of time to tunnel 100 feet.

Bushmoles:	1,000 crowns

No rubbing required; just pop the cork!

BOMBAY JINN

As soon as youve drained the distillation, what should appear but a magickal servant. Fortified by the BOMBAY JINN, youll be able to command the little fellow to perform a minor service with any effects delivered lasting no more than two hours. As the servant is only one-quarter the strength of a normal one of his sort, remember the limits…

Bombay Jinn:	1,500 crowns

Never a dull moment when someone downs a…

CLOWN ROYAL

Heres one to reserve for a friend. One minute after tossing off this decoction, the sucker will become antic, a vocal and amusing Jack Pudding for sure. CLOWN ROYAL makes whoever consumes it into a true buffoon, a zany jester full of tumbling tricks, droll insults, and a dozen grimaces and funny faces! The performance lasts for a quarter of an hourplenty of time to draw attention away from you and your activities.

Clown Royal:	800 crowns

With this under your belt, you have a feeling of safety!

CUIRASSIER

Thats because our special formula is not only a smooth cognac, but it also provides armor protection. Thats right, CUIRASSIER packs a whollop and helps you take one too. Instantly after downing it, you have protection from damage equal to 50, 10 points taken in each of five attacks upon you, before the magic fades. Great for when the party gets rough…

Cuirassier:	1,800 crowns

The party will always end with a bang with…

DRAM-BLEWIE

Its sure to be a blast when anyone drains two fingers of this peaty liqueur. The dweomered herbs and sweeter included in DRAM-BLEWIE enable the consumer to spit forth an explosive missile. The range is up to 20 feet. Those within five feet of where it hits suffer concussion damage as if hit by a heavy flail, are stunned and unable to do anything for 12 seconds time.

Dram-blewie:	1,200 crowns

Looks funny!Smells great!Looks…

FOUR NOSES

Indeed, whoever drinks this whiskey blend will look hilarious. One minute after polishing off the stuff what should appear on countenance but three new noses. Right! As the name says, FOUR NOSES, one by each ear, one on the back of the head. Olfactory senses are likewise quadruple normalnot quite as good as a bloodhound, but keen. Lasting for a full hour, the magickal effect enables sure tracking by scent alone.

Four Noses:	1,100 crowns

For the thirsty mariner, theres…

GALLEY-ON-O

Ahoy, matey! Need to increase the speed of the vessel youre on? Just drain down this magical mixture, get a buzz, and at the same time be able to manage things as an expert mariner. The enchantment in the GALLEY-ON-O draught makes you a skilled captain of barge, boat, galley, or full-fledged sailing ship. Have the crew in awe as you command expertly for a full hour.

Galley-On-O:	1,600 crowns

Tired of being influenced by somebody or something? Drink…

GLEN FED-UP

Youll be as dour as any Scot, and free of all magical mind effects directing your actions after a wee drop of this fine whiskey-based elixir. Toss off the contents of the GLEN FED-UP bottle, and in that very instant you can be your own man! What a surprise to control-freak mages and their ilk, and what a relief to you as you give em what for.

Glen Fed-Up:	800 crowns

When its time to be irate, go berserk, then its time for…

GLEN LIVID

This single-malt whiskey has a double whammy for those under the illusion that youre a pushover. The dweomer in the drink GLEN LIVID infuses you with a berserk power that brings 10% increase in tour weapons ability, adds 50% to damage based on your physique, and reduces any harm you receive by 10% because of your enchanted status. Attack with vigor immediately after quaffing, as the effect persists for only half a minutes time.

Glen Livid:	2,000 crowns

Goes great with tonic and lemon or lime, its…

GORGONS GRIN

Try a shot of this gin-based elixir next time you want to see someone really stoned! Not you, of course, but the subject of your gaze. One minute after consuming GORGONS GRIN, all youll need to do is look, smile, and zap! The one you choose to stare at thats within 30 feet distance will be petrified…literally. Effect is permanent, so avoid using when inebriated and mirrors are around. Target subject can avoid the stare is lucky. Power of petrifaction lasts only six seconds after becoming active, so be ready to act.

Gorgons Grin:	2,000 crowns

Exercise in a bottle? That and more!

GYM BEAM

Always wanted to be an acrobat? Youll excel at balance, control, even tight-rope walking when youve downed the contents of our famous GYM BEAM potion! Climb like a monkey, swing like an ape, and enjoy the fun for a full hour too.

Gym Beam:	1,250 crowns

Scotch em for certain with…

HEN-YOU-SEE

Even though this is a brandy-based decoction, youll turn the tables on your foe by tossing off our special HEN-YOU-SEE potion. Down the hatch, wait a moment, you give your target a stare. Zap! That one is turned into a clucking chicken. Even though the victim knows whats happened, what can do, lay an egg? Effect is transitory, lasts only 30 seconds, so its great for parties with friends too.

Hen-You-See:	1,900 crowns

Heres a smashing liqueur for you..

HAMMERETTO

One slug of this tasty potion, and in a second youre ready to break down doors. Thats because an enchanted maul appears in your mitts, and you can wield it with devastating effect thanks to our HAMMERETTO. One blow shatters a normal door, two will do for a heavy one, and three strikes and that iron-bound oak number is flinders. Also great for smashing escape holes through walls. The magical sledge hammer remains in being for a full 30 seconds time, so have a good knock-about. Caution: Does not work on living, animal, or animate targets.

Hammeretto:	1,500 crowns

What a panic when you drink…

HOSE A SCARE-O

Immediately after youve downed the last drop of this alcohol-based , things start to liven up.Thats because the stuff changes you into the most horrible-looking monster imaginable. Only those with intestinal fortitude over a score can remain in your vicinity. Thats the terrifying effect of HOSE A SCARE-O. Watch em flee in panic, enjoy being alone in the place to drink or loot alone. Physical alteration lasts a quarter of an hour, so dont plan on going out for a bit after drinking.

Hose A Scare-o:	1,900 crowns

A wee drop never hurt anyone…

IREISH MIST

So say the unsuspecting rubes who fall for this one. Distilled by a Teutonic master, the results are ser shoen, not! As soon as a bottle of IREISH MIST is emptied, so too the heavens above. Down comes a rain of hauffen mist, and in a radius of 30 feet the manure is piles knee deep.What a smell!What laugh. So hand out the drinks and get back in a hurry.

Ireish Mist:	250 crowns

Sure to get a rise.

JACK HANDLES

Whatever needs to be levered up, raised, and generally displaced thus is a cinch for whoever quaffs this fiery distillation.Thats because JACK HANDLES instantly gives the ability to magickally move up to two tons of dead weight upwards or laterally away as much as five feet. It takes a minute a foot, but slow and steady wins the race! Caution. The effect fades after five minutes, and any unsupported object thats been lifted will fall back.

Jack Handles:	1,100 crowns

Not only family but kith too will appreciate your downing…

KIN-AIDING CLUB

Pour this excellent whiskey down your gullet, then get ready for battle. The draught fills the toper with extra ability in handling bludgeons, dealing damage. The effect of KIN-AIDING CLUB gives a 10% addition to hitting accuracy, adds a hefty 50% of maximum harm potential to the normal damage done. Be sure to get into the fray quickly, though, as the power lasts for only 30 seconds.

Kin-Aiding Club:	750 crowns

The pick of cognacs is…

MARTEL

Thats because theres a genuine military hammer magically contained in the bottle. Sniff, drink, and as the brandy warms your gullet, an enchanted martel appears in your hand. Drink MARTEL and ply one with a 10% increase in your normal weapons skill as you deliver 50% added harm with the deadly pick. Effect lasts only 30 seconds, so be quick!

Martel	1,100 crowns

What a kick, what a cut!

METAAXA

As this brandy burns its way down your gullet, you howl with gleeful abandon. One heft of axe, bardiche, cleaver, or like weapon will tell you all. METAAXA adds power to your swing, more harm per cleave. Just polish off the liquor and have 10% better chance to hit, add a hefty 50% bonus to damage, and enjoy! Effect persists for one minute of glorious assaulting.

MetaAxa:	1,500 crowns

Getting out is easy when you drink…

MY DOORIE

Anytime up to an hour after drinking this tasty liqueur you are guaranteed an entrance…or exit.Thats because the magic in the MY DOORIE elixir enables you to walk through a wall. Thats right! You can pass through any sort of wood or stone wall of 10 or less feet thickness. (Solid metal partitions prevent the effect, so be careful.)

My Doorie:	900 crowns

That fellow is as puffed up as a bullfrog!

OLD CROAK

Thats what those watching will say as this whiskey is drunk. A minute afterwards, theyll be amazed to see that the consumer has become a bullfrog, a giant one if thats what he wants! OLD CROAK allows that, so fool the witch or mystify friends as you jump and swim as a super-powered batrachian for up to an hours time, or whenever you clap your webbed forefeet before that.

Old Croak:	700 crowns

Want to be an expert woodsman? Quaff some…

OLD FORESTER

This special bonded  is distilled, aged, and carefully bottled to assure that it delivers! OLD FORESTER magically enables you to have all the skills of a backwoodsmanhunting, moving silently, tracking, trapping and more. You will perform at 90% perfection in all aspects of woodcraft and ranging for one hour immediately after consuming this liquor, so enjoy…

Old Forester:	1,200 crowns

Do as youre told, varlet!

OLD MR. BOSSEM

Immediately after consuming the contents of this potion, you will be able to direct anyone and everyone you see thats within 30 feet or less. The enchantment power of OLD MR. BOSSUM enables you to utter a single command thus, and the subject(s) must avoid the magic force or else obey instantly. While suicide and self-harm are not possible through this potion, turning on friends and associates isnt a problem. Your commanding energy lasts only 12 seconds, so have those orders ready!

Old Mr. Bossem:	1,900 crowns

Feel great while looking shabby with…

OLD OVERCOAT

Youll get nothing but a few wry glances after swigging down this liquor. The dweomer of this draught changes your appearance instantly, cloaking you with an illusion thats 90% impossible to discover.OLD OVERCOAT makes you non-descript, ordinary if somewhat shabby. Perfect for fooling the watch or foiling eye-witnesses.

Old Overcoat:	800 crowns

A sure way to get down with your friends is to knock back a…

SINKUMS 7

What a riot when youve swilled this concoction. The whiskey tastes fine, and the after-effect is something youll dig.SINKUMS 7 instantly enables you to excavate a cubic area of earth thats up to seven yards a side, and perform the deed under your feet or those of others up to seven yards distant! Nobody plummets to the bottom of the hole, but its a permanent feature from then on, a pit.

Sinkums 7:	1,500 crowns

What a piercing flavor you get from…

SPEAROFF ICE

All vodka should come ice cold, and this one comes off exactly that way! How so? Because our special SPEAROFF ICE enables you to generate an icicle missile once every six seconds, three times in all. It has a range of 60 feet, causes normal damage, with bonus harm, for a spear when it hits, the chance being as if youd hurled it as if it were a +4 (+20%) missile.

Spearoff Ice:	1,950 crowns

And not a whisper of odor on your breath either when you drink…

STOLITNEATLY

No matter how you enjoy this vodka, the results of doing a double shot will light you up inside, do the reverse outside.Thats because STOLITNEATLY has a clever dweomer that makes it twice as hard for anyone to notice you, increases your stealth and thievery capacity by 50%. Have several bottles on hand, as the effect lasts only five minutes.

Stoleitneatly:	1,250 crowns

Heres how to get really high.

SKYYY VODKA

Knock the contents of this bottle off and soar away…literally! The heka contained in this potion enables the consumer to fly into the air as if he were a falcon. The contents of the SKYYY VODKA miniature make aerial antics a blast for up to a quarter hours time. What a feeling; what a view!

Skyyy Vodka:	900 crowns

When that ugly customer needs to be restrained, then its…

THREE FETTERS

No need to panic when threatened with battery and mayhem. Not when you have this miniature of out famous blend, THREE FETTERS in hand. Just drain the draught, and youll be able to instantly bind the would-be assailant with leg irons, manacles, and a waist chain that links the two constraining his extremities. Lasts for a full hours time, takes a giant to break out too. Great for other sorts of situations, of course…

Three Fetters:	1,750 crowns

